docs/examples/nodejs.mdx, before:

# Node.js

In this example, we will go over the steps required to implement Superface into your Node.js application development workflow.

:::info Have you created Comlinks?

This guide assumes that you have already
installed and run the Superface CLI to generate the Comlinks for the API
integration you want to work with. If not, please [start
here](../introduction/quick-start.mdx).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install OneSDK

```shell
npm i @superfaceai/one-sdk@beta
```

Finally, create a new file called `index.mjs`, or open whichever file you want to include your integration code in.

### (Optional) Move your Comlinks

If you created your Comlinks with the Superface CLI in a different folder, please move them to a `superface` folder at the root of your application. The following files are expected by OneSDK.

```text
.
└── superface/ - directory with all the Comlinks in project root
    ├── <profileScope>.<profileName>.profile - profile file
    ├── <providerName>.provider.json - provider file
    ├── <profileScope>.<profileName>.<providerName>.map.js - map file
    └── ... - repeat for all the Comlinks
```

### Add the OneSDK function

In order to work with the Comlink files, you need to import the OneClient library from OneSDK. Then you are free to create any standard async function you like to run the code. The example below outlines all the options that are available.

However, if you have generated your Comlinks using the Superface CLI, you already have this function available to you via the `<scope>.<use-case>.<provider>.mjs` file that you will find in the root of your `superface` folder.

```js
import { OneClient } from '@superfaceai/one-sdk';

async function main() {
  const client = new OneClient(
    token: '<your-superface-token>', // optional
    assetsPath: '<path-to-superface-folder>' //default is ./superface
  );
  const profile = await client.getProfile('<profileName>');
  const useCase = profile.getUseCase('<usecaseName>');

  try {
    const result = await useCase.perform(
      {
        // Input parameters as defined in profile:
        <key>: '<value>',
      },
      {
        provider: '<providerName>',
        parameters: {
          // Provider specific integration parameters:
          '<integrationParameterName>': '<integrationParameterValue>',
        },
        security: {
          // Provider specific security values:
          '<securityValueId>': {
            // Security values as described in provider or on profile page
          },
        },
      }
    );
    // output result on success
    console.log("RESULT:", JSON.stringify(result, null, 2));
  } catch(e) {
    // output result on error
    console.log("ERROR:", JSON.stringify(e, null, 2));
  }
}

main();
```

### Run the code

Because OneSDK is built with Wasm, and WASI support for Node.js is still experimental, to run your file you will need to pass an additional flag.

```shell
node --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1 index.mjs
```

</div>

Commit message:

highlight that no WASI flag is required for later versions of Node.js > 18.17.0

docs/examples/nodejs.mdx, after:

# Node.js

In this example, we will go over the steps required to implement Superface into your Node.js application development workflow.

:::info Have you created Comlinks?

This guide assumes that you have already
installed and run the Superface CLI to generate the Comlinks for the API
integration you want to work with. If not, please [start
here](../introduction/quick-start.mdx).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install OneSDK

```shell
npm i @superfaceai/one-sdk@beta
```

Finally, create a new file called `index.mjs`, or open whichever file you want to include your integration code in.

### (Optional) Move your Comlinks

If you created your Comlinks with the Superface CLI in a different folder, please move them to a `superface` folder at the root of your application. The following files are expected by OneSDK.

```text
.
└── superface/ - directory with all the Comlinks in project root
    ├── <profileScope>.<profileName>.profile - profile file
    ├── <providerName>.provider.json - provider file
    ├── <profileScope>.<profileName>.<providerName>.map.js - map file
    └── ... - repeat for all the Comlinks
```

### Add the OneSDK function

In order to work with the Comlink files, you need to import the OneClient library from OneSDK. Then you are free to create any standard async function you like to run the code. The example below outlines all the options that are available.

However, if you have generated your Comlinks using the Superface CLI, you already have this function available to you via the `<scope>.<use-case>.<provider>.mjs` file that you will find in the root of your `superface` folder.

```js
import { OneClient } from '@superfaceai/one-sdk';

async function main() {
  const client = new OneClient(
    token: '<your-superface-token>', // optional
    assetsPath: '<path-to-superface-folder>' //default is ./superface
  );
  const profile = await client.getProfile('<profileName>');
  const useCase = profile.getUseCase('<usecaseName>');

  try {
    const result = await useCase.perform(
      {
        // Input parameters as defined in profile:
        <key>: '<value>',
      },
      {
        provider: '<providerName>',
        parameters: {
          // Provider specific integration parameters:
          '<integrationParameterName>': '<integrationParameterValue>',
        },
        security: {
          // Provider specific security values:
          '<securityValueId>': {
            // Security values as described in provider or on profile page
          },
        },
      }
    );
    // output result on success
    console.log("RESULT:", JSON.stringify(result, null, 2));
  } catch(e) {
    // output result on error
    console.log("ERROR:", JSON.stringify(e, null, 2));
  }
}

main();
```

### Run the code

If using a version of Node.js before `18.17.0` you will need to enable WASI by providing an extra flag:

```shell
node --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1 index.mjs
```

For later versions of Node.js you can run the script as normal:

```shell
node index.mjs
```

</div>
