docs/introduction/quick-start-sdk.mdx, before:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Quick Start (OneSDK)

The Superface OneSDK is the interface between your application, and the API provider you want to work with. It uses the [Comlinks generated by the Superface CLI](./quick-start.mdx) to perform the use cases you define.

Here's how you get it up and running in your project.

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install OneSDK

:::info Before you start

Superface OneSDK requires either [Node.js](https://nodejs.dev/) version 18.0.0 or newer to be installed, and Python 3.8 or newer if you want to output for your Python project.

:::
In your app directory, install the OneSDK library:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

  <TabItem value="nodejs">

```shell
npm install @superfaceai/one-sdk@beta
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="python">

```shell
pip install one-sdk
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create your code

This example assumes that the Comlink files generated by the CLI will be a folder named `superface`, however if you have a different folder structure you can set the `assetsPath` as an option of the `OneClient()` set up below:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="nodejs">

```js title="index.mjs"
import { OneClient, PerformError, UnexpectedError } from '@superfaceai/one-sdk';

async function main() {
  const client = new OneClient({
    // The token for monitoring your Comlinks at https://superface.ai
    token: process.env.SUPERFACE_ONESDK_TOKEN,
    // Path to Comlinks within your project
    assetsPath: '<path_to_superface_comlinks>'
  });

  // Assign our CLI generated profile so it matches
  // the 'name' in the .profile file.
  // Example: email-communication/email-sending

  const profile = await client.getProfile('<profileName>');
  const useCase = profile.getUseCase('<usecaseName>'); // The <usecaseName> is also found in the .profile file

  try {
    const result = await useCase
      .perform(
        {
          // Input parameters as defined in profile:
          <key>: '<value>',
        },
        {
          provider: '<providerName>',
          parameters: {
            // Provider specific integration parameters:
            '<integrationParameterName>': '<integrationParameterValue>',
          },
          security: {
            // Provider specific security values:
            '<securityValueId>': {
              // Security values as described in provider or on profile page
            },
          },
        }
      );

  // output result on success
    console.log("RESULT:", JSON.stringify(result, null, 2));
  } catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof PerformError) {
    console.log('ERROR RESULT:', e.errorResult);
  } else if (e instanceof UnexpectedError) {
    console.error('ERROR:', e);
  } else {
    throw e;
  }
}

main();
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python">

```python title="main.py"
import sys
import os

from one_sdk import OneClient, PerformError, UnexpectedError

client = OneClient(
  # The token for monitoring your Comlinks at https://superface.ai
  token = os.getenv("SUPERFACE_ONESDK_TOKEN"),
  # Path to Comlinks within your project
  assets_path = "/Users/martyndavies/development/superface/demos/email-demo/superface"
)

profile = client.get_profile("<profileName>")
use_case = profile.get_usecase("<usecaseName>")
try:
    r = use_case.perform(
        {
            # Input parameters as defined in profile:
            '<key>': '<value>'
        },
        provider = '<providerName>',
        # Provider specific integration parameters:
        parameters = {
            '<integrationParameterName>': '<integrationParameterValue>'
        },
        security = {
            # Provider specific security values:
            '<securityValueId>': {
                # Security values as described in provider or on profile page
            }
        }
    )
    print(f"RESULT: {r}")
except PerformError as e:
    print(f"ERROR RESULT: {e.error_result}")
except UnexpectedError as e:
    print(f"ERROR: {e}", file=sys.stderr)
except Exception as e:
    raise e
finally:
    client.send_metrics_to_superface()
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Run

It's time to run your app!

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="nodejs">

Because the Superface OneSDK is built with WASM, it requires that you pass the `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1` flag.

```shell
node --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1 index.mjs
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python">

```shell
python main.py
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Debugging

Set the environment variable `ONESDK_LOG` to `on` to see API calls from OneSDK to the API you are connecting to:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="nodejs">

```shell
ONESDK_LOG="on" node --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1 index.mjs
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python">

```shell
ONESDK_LOG="on" python main.py
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::caution

This can print out potentially sensitive information, like API keys and access tokens.

:::

</div>

Commit message:

highlight that no WASI flag is required for later versions of Node.js > 18.17.0

docs/introduction/quick-start-sdk.mdx, after:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Quick Start (OneSDK)

The Superface OneSDK is the interface between your application, and the API provider you want to work with. It uses the [Comlinks generated by the Superface CLI](./quick-start.mdx) to perform the use cases you define.

Here's how you get it up and running in your project.

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install OneSDK

:::info Before you start

Superface OneSDK requires either [Node.js](https://nodejs.dev/) version 18.0.0 or newer to be installed, and Python 3.8 or newer if you want to output for your Python project.

:::
In your app directory, install the OneSDK library:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

  <TabItem value="nodejs">

```shell
npm install @superfaceai/one-sdk@beta
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="python">

```shell
pip install one-sdk
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create your code

This example assumes that the Comlink files generated by the CLI will be a folder named `superface`, however if you have a different folder structure you can set the `assetsPath` as an option of the `OneClient()` set up below:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="nodejs">

```js title="index.mjs"
import { OneClient, PerformError, UnexpectedError } from '@superfaceai/one-sdk';

async function main() {
  const client = new OneClient({
    // The token for monitoring your Comlinks at https://superface.ai
    token: process.env.SUPERFACE_ONESDK_TOKEN,
    // Path to Comlinks within your project
    assetsPath: '<path_to_superface_comlinks>'
  });

  // Assign our CLI generated profile so it matches
  // the 'name' in the .profile file.
  // Example: email-communication/email-sending

  const profile = await client.getProfile('<profileName>');
  const useCase = profile.getUseCase('<usecaseName>'); // The <usecaseName> is also found in the .profile file

  try {
    const result = await useCase
      .perform(
        {
          // Input parameters as defined in profile:
          <key>: '<value>',
        },
        {
          provider: '<providerName>',
          parameters: {
            // Provider specific integration parameters:
            '<integrationParameterName>': '<integrationParameterValue>',
          },
          security: {
            // Provider specific security values:
            '<securityValueId>': {
              // Security values as described in provider or on profile page
            },
          },
        }
      );

  // output result on success
    console.log("RESULT:", JSON.stringify(result, null, 2));
  } catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof PerformError) {
    console.log('ERROR RESULT:', e.errorResult);
  } else if (e instanceof UnexpectedError) {
    console.error('ERROR:', e);
  } else {
    throw e;
  }
}

main();
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python">

```python title="main.py"
import sys
import os

from one_sdk import OneClient, PerformError, UnexpectedError

client = OneClient(
  # The token for monitoring your Comlinks at https://superface.ai
  token = os.getenv("SUPERFACE_ONESDK_TOKEN"),
  # Path to Comlinks within your project
  assets_path = "/Users/martyndavies/development/superface/demos/email-demo/superface"
)

profile = client.get_profile("<profileName>")
use_case = profile.get_usecase("<usecaseName>")
try:
    r = use_case.perform(
        {
            # Input parameters as defined in profile:
            '<key>': '<value>'
        },
        provider = '<providerName>',
        # Provider specific integration parameters:
        parameters = {
            '<integrationParameterName>': '<integrationParameterValue>'
        },
        security = {
            # Provider specific security values:
            '<securityValueId>': {
                # Security values as described in provider or on profile page
            }
        }
    )
    print(f"RESULT: {r}")
except PerformError as e:
    print(f"ERROR RESULT: {e.error_result}")
except UnexpectedError as e:
    print(f"ERROR: {e}", file=sys.stderr)
except Exception as e:
    raise e
finally:
    client.send_metrics_to_superface()
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Run

It's time to run your app!

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="nodejs">

Because the Superface OneSDK is built with WASM, it requires that you pass the `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1` flag if using Node.js version `18.17.0` or earlier.

```shell
node --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1 index.mjs
```

For later versions of Node.js, you can run the script as normal:

```shell
node index.mjs
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python">

```shell
python main.py
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Debugging

Set the environment variable `ONESDK_LOG` to `on` to see API calls from OneSDK to the API you are connecting to:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="nodejs"
  values={[
    { label: 'Node.js', value: 'nodejs' },
    { label: 'Python', value: 'python' }
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="nodejs">

```shell
ONESDK_LOG="on" node --experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1 index.mjs
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python">

```shell
ONESDK_LOG="on" python main.py
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::caution

This can print out potentially sensitive information, like API keys and access tokens.

:::

</div>
