docs/tools/notion.mdx, before:

# Notion

The Notion tool for Superface allows you to quickly add the following capabilities:

- List users in a Notion workspace

## Requirements

You will need a pre-existing Notion workspace with Workspace Owner permission to set up an Internal Integration. This can be done from the [My Integrations](https://www.notion.so/my-integrations) section of Notion. If you cannot access this, please ask your Notion workspace owner.

![Notion's My Integrations section](/img/tools/tools-notion-myintegrations.png)

- Click on _Create new integration_.
- Select the workspace to associate the integration with.
- Choose a name for your integration (we recommend _Superface_).
- Click on Submit.

Now your integration is setup, you can copy the _Internal Integration Token_ from the _Secrets_ tab.

![Notion's My Integrations section](/img/tools/tools-notion-secret.png)

## Authentication

In Superface, click on the Config button for the Notion tool and set the following values:

- `Token`. Use the _Internal Integration Token_ from Notion.

![The Superface config for Notion](/img/tools/tools-notion-security.png)

Click on Save Changes to update the tool with the new credentials.

:::note Import your schema

Remember to re-import the schema in your GPT to update it with the new capabilities added by this tool.

:::

## Video walkthrough

<div
  style={{
    position: 'relative',
    paddingBottom: '83.33333333333334%',
    height: 0,
  }}
>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/f1f310cab166425dbf2ae113ca8cd77b?sid=d61af596-2a89-4208-b508-8e2b601034bd"
    frameBorder={0}
    webkitallowfullscreen=""
    mozallowfullscreen=""
    allowFullScreen=""
    style={{
      position: 'absolute',
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: '100%',
      height: '100%',
    }}
  />
</div>

## Example prompts

To test that everything is working as it should be, from your GPT or the Superface Agent you can try asking:

- List the users in Notion

Commit message:

update Notion with connection details and new capabilities

docs/tools/notion.mdx, after:

# Notion

The Notion tool for Superface allows you to quickly add the following capabilities:

- Create a new page in a specified database or as a child of an existing page.
- Retrieve a specific database's details.
- Retrieve a specific property of a page in Notion using the 'page_id' and 'property_id'. Returns the property detail.
- Retrieve a specific page's details.
- Retrieve user data.
- List users in a Notion workspace
- Search for pages and databases with a specific title.

## Requirements

You will need a pre-existing Notion workspace with Workspace Owner permission to set up an Internal Integration. This can be done from the [My Integrations](https://www.notion.so/my-integrations) section of Notion. If you cannot access this, please ask your Notion workspace owner.

![Notion's My Integrations section](/img/tools/tools-notion-myintegrations.png)

- Click on _Create new integration_.
- Select the workspace to associate the integration with.
- Choose a name for your integration (we recommend _Superface_).
- Click on Submit.

Now your integration is setup, you can copy the _Internal Integration Token_ from the _Secrets_ tab.

![Notion's My Integrations section](/img/tools/tools-notion-secret.png)

## Connections

In Notion, your pages and databases need to be connected to your integration in order to make them available to it.

In each top level section you want to use with Superface, click on the page settings menu bar in the top right of the page and find your integration in the _Connections_ section.

![The Connection section of the main Notion settings](/img/tools/tools-notion-connection.png)

There you can either add a connection to an integration or modify the settings for one that is already connected.

## Authentication

In Superface, click on the Config button for the Notion tool and set the following values:

- `Token`. Use the _Internal Integration Token_ from Notion.

![The Superface config for Notion](/img/tools/tools-notion-security.png)

Click on Save Changes to update the tool with the new credentials.

:::note Import your schema

Remember to re-import the schema in your GPT to update it with the new capabilities added by this tool.

:::

## Video walkthrough

<div
  style={{
    position: 'relative',
    paddingBottom: '83.33333333333334%',
    height: 0,
  }}
>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/f1f310cab166425dbf2ae113ca8cd77b?sid=d61af596-2a89-4208-b508-8e2b601034bd"
    frameBorder={0}
    webkitallowfullscreen=""
    mozallowfullscreen=""
    allowFullScreen=""
    style={{
      position: 'absolute',
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: '100%',
      height: '100%',
    }}
  />
</div>

## Example prompts

To test that everything is working as it should be, from your GPT or the Superface Agent you can try asking:

- List the users in Notion
