docs/guides/run-use-case.md, before:

# Run use case

This guide describes how to start using a locally developed use case in a production Node.js application.

## Prerequisites

- Existing Node.js [project set up](./setup-the-environment.md)
- Existing [profile](./create-new-use-case)
- Existing [provider definition](./add-new-provider.md)
- Existing [map between the profile & the provider](./map-use-case-to-provider.md)

<!--
TODO: offline/fork/transfering to local setup guide

## Import profile with use cases to the project

The use case needs to be first imported to your application. Depending on your previous steps, you may have created the use case in an isolated project. In that case, you will need to copy the files over to your production application.

:::info

It is recommended (although not necessary) to place the files onto the same relative paths.

:::

### Comlink files

1. Place Profile document (`*.supr`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
2. Place Map document (`*.suma`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
3. Place Provider document (`*.provider.json`) to your project

### Superface configuration

1. If `.env` file is present, place it in the root of your project (or merge contents if you have one already existing)
2. Place the entire `superface` directory to your project

#### Ensure `super.json` has valid paths

1. Open `/superface/super.json`
2. Search for all references to `.supr`, `.suma` & `.json` files
3. Make sure the relative path references are correct
-->

## Configure provider authentication {#configure-security}

:::info Optional

If the Provider JSON doesn't define any _security schemes_, or the map doesn't use `security`, you can skip this step.

:::

If you've created a completely new Provider JSON definition in your project, it will not have its security schemes configured in the local `superface/super.json` configuration file.

Provider's security schemes must be configured in `super.json` since OneSDK will search for it when authenticating the requests during use case perform.

The specific provider section will look like the following example:

```json title="superface/super.json" {6-8}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": []
    }
  }
}
```

_Search in top-level `providers` object for the actual provider you want to configure._

### Configure using CLI {#cli-configuration}

The easiest way to bootstrap the provider's security configuration is using [Superface CLI](/reference/cli).

```shell
superface configure <provider-name> -p <profile-name> --localProvider <path-to.provider.json> --localMap <path-to-provider-map.suma> -f
```

_Replace the `<profile-name>`, `<path-to.provider.json>`, `<provider-name->`, and `<path-to-provider-map.suma>` in the command with the actual values._

Running the above command automatically creates security schemes configuration in `super.json` based on Provider definition. It also prepares expected environment variables (if any are required) inside a `.env` file.

_Advanced users can [configure the security manually](#manual-configuration) instead._

### Configure security in `super.json` manually {#manual-configuration}

_If you configured security [using CLI](#cli-configuration), you can skip this._

<details>
  <summary>Configuring security manually</summary>

You'll need to provide a configuration based on the security scheme type. Currently the following schemes can be used:

- [Configure Basic Auth](#basic-auth)
- [Configure Bearer Token](#bearer-token)
- [Configure API key in header or query](#api-key)

#### Reading environment variables in `super.json` {#envs}

You can be prepend any value assigned in `super.json` with a dollar sign (`$`) to reference an environment variable.

```json
{
  // ...
  "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN"
  // ...
}
```

_When evaluating the above configuration, OneSDK will look for `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` value in environment variables._

#### Configure Basic Auth scheme {#basic-auth}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-12}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "username": "$PROVIDER_USERNAME", // will read `PROVIDER_USERNAME` from environment
          "password": "$PROVIDER_PASSWORD" // will read `PROVIDER_PASSWORD` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the Provider JSON document. You can use your own values for `username` & `password`. However it's a common practice to supply these values via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure Bearer Token scheme {#bearer-token}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN" // will read `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `token`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure API key in headers or query {#api-key}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "apikey": "$PROVIDER_API_KEY" // will read `PROVIDER_API_KEY` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `apikey`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

</details>

## Set environment variables

For apps running the capabilities that require authentication, you'll typically want to supply the providers' API keys via environment variables (see [configuration above](#configure-security)).

If `.env` file exists and you used the CLI, the required environment variables will be present in the file. Fill in the providers' API keys. Then install the [`dotenv`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) package to load the `.env` file.

If `.env` file doesn't exist, you can find the expected environment variables in `/superface/super.json`. Any value that starts with a dollar sign (`$`) is a reference to an environment variable.

## Write Node.js app

Use the OneSDK to load and perform the use case:

```javascript title="app.js" {8,11,12}
// If you're using .env file, you should also install and init `dotenv` package
require('dotenv').config();
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');

const sdk = new SuperfaceClient();

async function main() {
  const profile = await sdk.getProfile('scope/profile-name');

  const result = await profile
    .getUseCase('UseCaseName')
    .perform(/* Input object as defined in the profile */);

  console.info('Hooray!', result.unwrap());
}

main();
```

_Replace `scope/profile-name`, `UseCaseName` and inputs for `.perform` method with the use case details you actually want to use._

:::info

For details on SuperfaceClient API, please consult [OneSDK reference](/reference/one-sdk-js).

:::

## Run the app

Now run the application to perform the use case and check the results:

```shell
node app.js
```

:::caution

If you have changed the maps or profiles in the meantime, don't forget to `compile` them using the [Superface CLI](https://github.com/superfaceai/cli)!

:::

<!-- 
:::tip Offline Use
To use use case without the use of Superface [remote registry](https://superface.ai/catalog). You have to import profiles with use cases into project and ensure `super.json` has valid paths to your profiles.

TODO: link to offline use guide

:::
-->

### Observe and debug API calls

OneSDK uses [`debug`](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug), which is useful for observing the behavior of the SDK and troubleshooting. To use it, set environment variable to `DEBUG="superface*"` before running the application:

```shell
DEBUG="superface*" node app.js
```

To observe just the API calls, you can use `superface:http` debug context:

```shell
DEBUG="superface:http*" node app.js
```

:::caution Sensitive Output

Using the `superface:http*` context will output full HTTP requests and responses including API keys and other sensitive data.

:::

<!--
:::note Other debug contexts

There are mutiple parts of Superface, which implemented this package and created debug context, you can find more about these contexts in [OneSDK repository](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js#usage) or [Parser repository](https://github.com/superfaceai/parser) on Github.

:::
-->

Commit message:

feat: add compile step to authoring guide

docs/guides/run-use-case.md, after:

# Run use case

This guide describes how to start using a locally developed use case in a production Node.js application.

## Prerequisites

- Existing Node.js [project set up](./setup-the-environment.md)
- Existing [profile](./create-new-use-case)
- Existing [provider definition](./add-new-provider.md)
- Existing [map between the profile & the provider](./map-use-case-to-provider.md)

<!--
TODO: offline/fork/transfering to local setup guide

## Import profile with use cases to the project

The use case needs to be first imported to your application. Depending on your previous steps, you may have created the use case in an isolated project. In that case, you will need to copy the files over to your production application.

:::info

It is recommended (although not necessary) to place the files onto the same relative paths.

:::

### Comlink files

1. Place Profile document (`*.supr`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
2. Place Map document (`*.suma`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
3. Place Provider document (`*.provider.json`) to your project

### Superface configuration

1. If `.env` file is present, place it in the root of your project (or merge contents if you have one already existing)
2. Place the entire `superface` directory to your project

#### Ensure `super.json` has valid paths

1. Open `/superface/super.json`
2. Search for all references to `.supr`, `.suma` & `.json` files
3. Make sure the relative path references are correct
-->

## Configure provider authentication {#configure-security}

:::info Optional

If the Provider JSON doesn't define any _security schemes_, or the map doesn't use `security`, you can skip this step.

:::

If you've created a completely new Provider JSON definition in your project, it will not have its security schemes configured in the local `superface/super.json` configuration file.

Provider's security schemes must be configured in `super.json` since OneSDK will search for it when authenticating the requests during use case perform.

The specific provider section will look like the following example:

```json title="superface/super.json" {6-8}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": []
    }
  }
}
```

_Search in top-level `providers` object for the actual provider you want to configure._

### Configure using CLI {#cli-configuration}

The easiest way to bootstrap the provider's security configuration is using [Superface CLI](/reference/cli).

```shell
superface configure <provider-name> -p <profile-name> --localProvider <path-to.provider.json> --localMap <path-to-provider-map.suma> -f
```

_Replace the `<profile-name>`, `<path-to.provider.json>`, `<provider-name->`, and `<path-to-provider-map.suma>` in the command with the actual values._

Running the above command automatically creates security schemes configuration in `super.json` based on Provider definition. It also prepares expected environment variables (if any are required) inside a `.env` file.

_Advanced users can [configure the security manually](#manual-configuration) instead._

### Configure security in `super.json` manually {#manual-configuration}

_If you configured security [using CLI](#cli-configuration), you can skip this._

<details>
  <summary>Configuring security manually</summary>

You'll need to provide a configuration based on the security scheme type. Currently the following schemes can be used:

- [Configure Basic Auth](#basic-auth)
- [Configure Bearer Token](#bearer-token)
- [Configure API key in header or query](#api-key)

#### Reading environment variables in `super.json` {#envs}

You can be prepend any value assigned in `super.json` with a dollar sign (`$`) to reference an environment variable.

```json
{
  // ...
  "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN"
  // ...
}
```

_When evaluating the above configuration, OneSDK will look for `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` value in environment variables._

#### Configure Basic Auth scheme {#basic-auth}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-12}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "username": "$PROVIDER_USERNAME", // will read `PROVIDER_USERNAME` from environment
          "password": "$PROVIDER_PASSWORD" // will read `PROVIDER_PASSWORD` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the Provider JSON document. You can use your own values for `username` & `password`. However it's a common practice to supply these values via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure Bearer Token scheme {#bearer-token}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN" // will read `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `token`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure API key in headers or query {#api-key}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "apikey": "$PROVIDER_API_KEY" // will read `PROVIDER_API_KEY` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `apikey`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

</details>

## Set environment variables

For apps running the capabilities that require authentication, you'll typically want to supply the providers' API keys via environment variables (see [configuration above](#configure-security)).

If `.env` file exists and you used the CLI, the required environment variables will be present in the file. Fill in the providers' API keys. Then install the [`dotenv`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) package to load the `.env` file.

If `.env` file doesn't exist, you can find the expected environment variables in `/superface/super.json`. Any value that starts with a dollar sign (`$`) is a reference to an environment variable.

## Write Node.js app

Use the OneSDK to load and perform the use case:

```javascript title="app.js" {8,11,12}
// If you're using .env file, you should also install and init `dotenv` package
require('dotenv').config();
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');

const sdk = new SuperfaceClient();

async function main() {
  const profile = await sdk.getProfile('scope/profile-name');

  const result = await profile
    .getUseCase('UseCaseName')
    .perform(/* Input object as defined in the profile */);

  console.info('Hooray!', result.unwrap());
}

main();
```

_Replace `scope/profile-name`, `UseCaseName` and inputs for `.perform` method with the use case details you actually want to use._

:::info

For details on SuperfaceClient API, please consult [OneSDK reference](/reference/one-sdk-js).

:::

## Compile Comlink source files to AST

Comlink profile and map files (.supr and .suma) needs to be compiled to their AST form (with .ast.json extension).

If you did not add compilation to your `package.json` build process as recommended in [How to setup local environment guide](./setup-the-environment#recomended-add-compilation-to-build-process) run the following command to perform a one-off compilation:

```shell
superface compile
# or, if you don't have the CLI installed
npx @superfaceai/cli@latest compile
```

This will generate `.ast.json` files next to the existing source files linked from `super.json` file.

:::caution

The `.ast.json` files must be available in the runtime for OneSDK. It is recommended to commit the `.ast.json` files to version control.

:::

The compilation is **necessary after every** change to local `.suma` and `.supr` files.

## Run the app

Now run the application to perform the use case and check the results:

```shell
node app.js
```


<!-- 
:::tip Offline Use
To use use case without the use of Superface [remote registry](https://superface.ai/catalog). You have to import profiles with use cases into project and ensure `super.json` has valid paths to your profiles.

TODO: link to offline use guide

:::
-->

### Observe and debug API calls

OneSDK uses [`debug`](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug), which is useful for observing the behavior of the SDK and troubleshooting. To use it, set environment variable to `DEBUG="superface*"` before running the application:

```shell
DEBUG="superface*" node app.js
```

To observe just the API calls, you can use `superface:http` debug context:

```shell
DEBUG="superface:http*" node app.js
```

:::caution Sensitive Output

Using the `superface:http*` context will output full HTTP requests and responses including API keys and other sensitive data.

:::

<!--
:::note Other debug contexts

There are mutiple parts of Superface, which implemented this package and created debug context, you can find more about these contexts in [OneSDK repository](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js#usage) or [Parser repository](https://github.com/superfaceai/parser) on Github.

:::
-->
