docs/guides/run-capability.md, before:

# Run Capability

This guide describes how a capability can be used in any production Node.js application.

## Prerequisites

- Existing Node.js [project set up](./setup-the-environment.md)
- Existing [profile](./create-new-capability)
- Existing [provider definition](./add-new-provider.md)
- Existing [map between the profile & the provider](./map-capability-to-provider.md)

<!--
TODO: offline/fork/transfering to local setup guide

## Import capability to the project

The capability needs to be first imported to your application. Depending on your previous steps, you may have created the capability in an isolated project. In that case, you will need to copy the files over to your production application.

:::info
It is recommended (although not necessary) to place the files onto the same relative paths.
:::

### Comlink files

1. Place Profile document (`*.supr`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
2. Place Map document (`*.suma`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
3. Place Provider document (`*.provider.json`) to your project

### Superface configuration

1. If `.env` file is present, place it in the root of your project (or merge contents if you have one already existing)
2. Place the entire `superface` directory to your project

#### Ensure `super.json` has valid paths

1. Open `/superface/super.json`
2. Search for all references to `.supr`, `.suma` & `.json` files
3. Make sure the relative path references are correct
-->

## Configure provider authentication {#configure-security}

:::info Optional

If the Provider JSON doesn't define any _security schemes_, or the map doesn't use `security`, you can skip this step.

:::

If you've created a completely new Provider JSON definition in your project, it will not have its security schemes configured in the local `superface/super.json` configuration file.

Provider's security schemes must be configured in `super.json` since OneSDK will search for it when authenticating the requests during use case perform.

The specific provider section will look like the following example:

```json title="superface/super.json" {6-8}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": []
    }
  }
}
```

_Search in top-level `providers` object for the actual provider you want to configure._

### Configure using CLI {#cli-configuration}

The easiest way to bootstrap the provider's security configuration is using [Superface CLI](/reference/cli).

```shell
superface configure <path-to.provider.json> -p <profile-name> -l -f
```

_Replace the `<path-to.provider.json>` in the command with the actual provider you're trying to configure for some `<profile-name>`._

Running the above command automatically creates security schemes configuration in `super.json` based on Provider definition. It also prepares expected environment variables (if any are required) inside a `.env` file.

_Advanced users can [configure the security manually](#manual-configuration) instead._

### Configure security in `super.json` manually {#manual-configuration}

_If you configured security [using CLI](#cli-configuration), you can skip this._

<details>
  <summary>Configuring security manually</summary>

You'll need to provide a configuration based on the security scheme type. Currently the following schemes can be used:

- [Configure Basic Auth](#basic-auth)
- [Configure Bearer Token](#bearer-token)
- [Configure API key in header or query](#api-key)

#### Reading environment variables in `super.json` {#envs}

You can be prepend any value assigned in `super.json` with a dollar sign (`$`) to reference an environment variable.

```json
{
  // ...
  "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN"
  // ...
}
```

_When evaluating the above configuration, OneSDK will look for `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` value in environment variables._

#### Configure Basic Auth scheme {#basic-auth}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-12}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "username": "$PROVIDER_USERNAME", // will read `PROVIDER_USERNAME` from environment
          "password": "$PROVIDER_PASSWORD" // will read `PROVIDER_PASSWORD` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the Provider JSON document. You can use your own values for `username` & `password`. However it's a common practice to supply these values via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure Bearer Token scheme {#bearer-token}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN" // will read `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `token`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure API key in headers or query {#api-key}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "apikey": "$PROVIDER_API_KEY" // will read `PROVIDER_API_KEY` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `apikey`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

</details>

## Set environment variables

For apps running the capabilities that require authentication, you'll typically want to supply the providers' API keys via environment variables (see [configuration above](#configure-security)).

If `.env` file exists and you used the CLI, the required environment variables will be present in the file. Fill in the providers' API keys. Then install the [`dotenv`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) package to load the `.env` file.

If `.env` file doesn't exist, you can find the expected environment variables in `/superface/super.json`. Any value that starts with a dollar sign (`$`) is a reference to an environment variable.

## Write Node.js app

Use the OneSDK to load and perform the use case:

```javascript title="app.js" {8,11,12}
// If you're using .env file, you should also install and init `dotenv` package
require('dotenv').config();
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');

const sdk = new SuperfaceClient();

async function main() {
  const profile = await sdk.getProfile('scope/profile-name');

  const result = await profile
    .getUseCase('UseCaseName')
    .perform(/* Input object as defined in the profile */);

  console.info('Hooray!', result.unwrap());
}

main();
```

:::info
Replace `scope/profile-name`, `UseCaseName` and inputs for `.perform` method with the use case details you actually want to use.

For details on SuperfaceClient API, please consult [OneSDK reference](/reference/one-sdk-js).
:::

## Run the app

Now run the application to perform the use case and check the results:

```shell
node app.js
```

:::tip Offline Use
To use capibility without the use of Superface [remote registry](https://superface.ai/catalog). You have to import capabilities into project and ensure `super.json` has valid paths to your capabilities.

TODO: link to offline use guide
:::

### DEBUG

OneSDK uses the [debug package](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug) which is useful for observing the behavior of the SDK and debugging. To use it, set environment variable to `DEBUG="superface*"` before running the application:

```shell
DEBUG="superface*" node app.js
```


There are mutiple parts of Superface, which implemented this package and created debug context:

in `OneSDK`:

- `superface:config`
- `superface:profile-parameter-validator`
- `superface:map-interpreter`
- `superface:http`, `superface:http:sensitive`
- `superface:superjson`
- `superface:failover`, `superface:failover:sensitive`
- `superface:bound-profile-provider`
- `superface:registry`
- `superface:usecase`
- `superface:lib/env`
- `superface:events`
- `superface:metric-reporter`

in `Parser`:

- `superface-parser:map-validator`
- `superface-parser:profile-io-analyzer`

To know more about setting up specific contexts, check out [conventions](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug#conventions) and [wildcards](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug#wildcards) of debug package.

Commit message:

docs: update run-capability guide

docs/guides/run-capability.md, after:

# Run Capability

This guide describes how a capability can be used in any production Node.js application.

## Prerequisites

- Existing Node.js [project set up](./setup-the-environment.md)
- Existing [profile](./create-new-capability)
- Existing [provider definition](./add-new-provider.md)
- Existing [map between the profile & the provider](./map-capability-to-provider.md)

<!--
TODO: offline/fork/transfering to local setup guide

## Import capability to the project

The capability needs to be first imported to your application. Depending on your previous steps, you may have created the capability in an isolated project. In that case, you will need to copy the files over to your production application.

:::info
It is recommended (although not necessary) to place the files onto the same relative paths.
:::

### Comlink files

1. Place Profile document (`*.supr`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
2. Place Map document (`*.suma`) and its compiled version (`*.ast.json`) to your project
3. Place Provider document (`*.provider.json`) to your project

### Superface configuration

1. If `.env` file is present, place it in the root of your project (or merge contents if you have one already existing)
2. Place the entire `superface` directory to your project

#### Ensure `super.json` has valid paths

1. Open `/superface/super.json`
2. Search for all references to `.supr`, `.suma` & `.json` files
3. Make sure the relative path references are correct
-->

## Configure provider authentication {#configure-security}

:::info Optional

If the Provider JSON doesn't define any _security schemes_, or the map doesn't use `security`, you can skip this step.

:::

If you've created a completely new Provider JSON definition in your project, it will not have its security schemes configured in the local `superface/super.json` configuration file.

Provider's security schemes must be configured in `super.json` since OneSDK will search for it when authenticating the requests during use case perform.

The specific provider section will look like the following example:

```json title="superface/super.json" {6-8}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": []
    }
  }
}
```

_Search in top-level `providers` object for the actual provider you want to configure._

### Configure using CLI {#cli-configuration}

The easiest way to bootstrap the provider's security configuration is using [Superface CLI](/reference/cli).

```shell
superface configure <path-to.provider.json> -p <profile-name> -l -f
```

_Replace the `<path-to.provider.json>` in the command with the actual provider you're trying to configure for some `<profile-name>`._

Running the above command automatically creates security schemes configuration in `super.json` based on Provider definition. It also prepares expected environment variables (if any are required) inside a `.env` file.

_Advanced users can [configure the security manually](#manual-configuration) instead._

### Configure security in `super.json` manually {#manual-configuration}

_If you configured security [using CLI](#cli-configuration), you can skip this._

<details>
  <summary>Configuring security manually</summary>

You'll need to provide a configuration based on the security scheme type. Currently the following schemes can be used:

- [Configure Basic Auth](#basic-auth)
- [Configure Bearer Token](#bearer-token)
- [Configure API key in header or query](#api-key)

#### Reading environment variables in `super.json` {#envs}

You can be prepend any value assigned in `super.json` with a dollar sign (`$`) to reference an environment variable.

```json
{
  // ...
  "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN"
  // ...
}
```

_When evaluating the above configuration, OneSDK will look for `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` value in environment variables._

#### Configure Basic Auth scheme {#basic-auth}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-12}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "username": "$PROVIDER_USERNAME", // will read `PROVIDER_USERNAME` from environment
          "password": "$PROVIDER_PASSWORD" // will read `PROVIDER_PASSWORD` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the Provider JSON document. You can use your own values for `username` & `password`. However it's a common practice to supply these values via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure Bearer Token scheme {#bearer-token}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "token": "$PROVIDER_API_TOKEN" // will read `PROVIDER_API_TOKEN` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `token`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

#### Configure API key in headers or query {#api-key}

Use the following config and reference an existing security scheme from the Provider's JSON definition by an identifier.

```json title="superface/super.json" {8-11}
{
  "profiles": {
    // ...
  },
  "providers": {
    "<provider-name>": {
      "security": [
        {
          "id": "<scheme-id>",
          "apikey": "$PROVIDER_API_KEY" // will read `PROVIDER_API_KEY` from environment
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

_Replace `<scheme-id>` with the actual security scheme ID defined in the provider JSON document. You can use your own value for `apikey`. However it's a common practice to supply these via [environment variables](#envs)._

</details>

## Set environment variables

For apps running the capabilities that require authentication, you'll typically want to supply the providers' API keys via environment variables (see [configuration above](#configure-security)).

If `.env` file exists and you used the CLI, the required environment variables will be present in the file. Fill in the providers' API keys. Then install the [`dotenv`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) package to load the `.env` file.

If `.env` file doesn't exist, you can find the expected environment variables in `/superface/super.json`. Any value that starts with a dollar sign (`$`) is a reference to an environment variable.

## Write Node.js app

Use the OneSDK to load and perform the use case:

```javascript title="app.js" {8,11,12}
// If you're using .env file, you should also install and init `dotenv` package
require('dotenv').config();
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');

const sdk = new SuperfaceClient();

async function main() {
  const profile = await sdk.getProfile('scope/profile-name');

  const result = await profile
    .getUseCase('UseCaseName')
    .perform(/* Input object as defined in the profile */);

  console.info('Hooray!', result.unwrap());
}

main();
```

_Replace `scope/profile-name`, `UseCaseName` and inputs for `.perform` method with the use case details you actually want to use._

:::info
For details on SuperfaceClient API, please consult [OneSDK reference](/reference/one-sdk-js).
:::

## Run the app

Now run the application to perform the use case and check the results:

```shell
node app.js
```

:::tip Offline Use
To use capibility without the use of Superface [remote registry](https://superface.ai/catalog). You have to import capabilities into project and ensure `super.json` has valid paths to your capabilities.

<!-- TODO: link to offline use guide -->
:::

### Observe and debug API calls

OneSDK uses the [debug package](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug) which is useful for observing the behavior of the SDK and debugging. To use it, set environment variable to `DEBUG="superface*"` before running the application:

```shell
DEBUG="superface*" node app.js
```

To observe API calls, you can use `superface:http` debug context.

:::info Credentials
If you want to debug sensitive information, you can use context `superface:http:sensitive`.
:::

:::note Other debug contexts
There are mutiple parts of Superface, which implemented this package and created debug context, you can find more about these contexts in [OneSDK repository](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js#usage) or [Parser repository](https://github.com/superfaceai/parser) on Github.
:::
