docs/api-examples/hubspot.mdx, before:

# HubSpot

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [HubSpot](https://hubspot.com/) API to produce a working use case that lists the companies in a HubSpot CRM.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a HubSpot Private App Access Token. Find out how to set that up in the [HubSpot private apps documentation](https://developers.hubspot.com/docs/api/private-apps).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

HubSpot's APIs are available as [Open API Specifications](https://api.hubspot.com/api-catalog-public/v1/apis), for this use case we will use the [Companies OAS document](https://api.hubspot.com/api-catalog-public/v1/apis/crm/v3/objects/companies).

```shell
superface prepare https://api.hubspot.com/api-catalog-public/v1/apis/crm/v3/objects/companies "hubspot"
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you should check that the API `baseUrl` and `securityScheme` are correct in the `hubspot.provider.json` file. You can copy the example below if needed:

```json title="hubspot.provider.json
{
  "name": "hubspot",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "parameters": [],
  "services": [
    {
      "baseUrl": "https://api.hubapi.com",
      "id": "default"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "bearer",
      "id": "bearerAuth"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Define your use case

```shell
superface new hubspot "list companies"
```

A file called `companies-management.read-companies.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map hubspot companies-management/read-companies
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your HubSpot API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `HUBSPOT_API_KEY=<your-hubspot-api-key>`.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the companies correctly, and to save you some time, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the HubSpot documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `companies-management.read-companies.hubspot.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js
{
    limit: 1,
    archived: false
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute hubspot companies-management/read-companies
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```json
RESULT: {
  "paging": {
    "next": {
      "after": "64878",
      "link": "https://api.hubapi.com/crm/v3/objects/companies?archived=false&limit=1&after=64878"
    }
  },
  "results": [
    {
      "archived": false,
      "archivedAt": null,
      "createdAt": "2022-09-20T15:25:10.907Z",
      "id": "64878",
      "properties": {
        "createdate": "2022-09-20T15:25:10.907Z",
        "domain": "company.com",
        "hs_lastmodifieddate": "2022-09-20T15:25:21.684Z",
        "hs_object_id": "64878",
        "name": "company.com"
      },
      "updatedAt": "2022-09-20T15:25:21.684Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

</div>

Commit message:

update to make non homebrew install clearer

docs/api-examples/hubspot.mdx, after:

# HubSpot

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [HubSpot](https://hubspot.com/) API to produce a working use case that lists the companies in a HubSpot CRM.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a HubSpot Private App Access Token. Find out how to set that up in the [HubSpot private apps documentation](https://developers.hubspot.com/docs/api/private-apps).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

The Superface CLI provides all the tooling needed to author the Comlinks for your integration and can be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on MacOS/Linux or [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) on Windows.

```shell title="Install with Homebrew"
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

```shell title="Install with NPM"
npm install -g @superfaceai/cli@latest
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

HubSpot's APIs are available as [Open API Specifications](https://api.hubspot.com/api-catalog-public/v1/apis), for this use case we will use the [Companies OAS document](https://api.hubspot.com/api-catalog-public/v1/apis/crm/v3/objects/companies).

```shell
superface prepare https://api.hubspot.com/api-catalog-public/v1/apis/crm/v3/objects/companies "hubspot"
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you should check that the API `baseUrl` and `securityScheme` are correct in the `hubspot.provider.json` file. You can copy the example below if needed:

```json title="hubspot.provider.json
{
  "name": "hubspot",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "parameters": [],
  "services": [
    {
      "baseUrl": "https://api.hubapi.com",
      "id": "default"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "bearer",
      "id": "bearerAuth"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Define your use case

```shell
superface new hubspot "list companies"
```

A file called `companies-management.read-companies.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map hubspot companies-management/read-companies
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your HubSpot API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `HUBSPOT_API_KEY=<your-hubspot-api-key>`.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the companies correctly, and to save you some time, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the HubSpot documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `companies-management.read-companies.hubspot.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js
{
    limit: 1,
    archived: false
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute hubspot companies-management/read-companies
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```json
RESULT: {
  "paging": {
    "next": {
      "after": "64878",
      "link": "https://api.hubapi.com/crm/v3/objects/companies?archived=false&limit=1&after=64878"
    }
  },
  "results": [
    {
      "archived": false,
      "archivedAt": null,
      "createdAt": "2022-09-20T15:25:10.907Z",
      "id": "64878",
      "properties": {
        "createdate": "2022-09-20T15:25:10.907Z",
        "domain": "company.com",
        "hs_lastmodifieddate": "2022-09-20T15:25:21.684Z",
        "hs_object_id": "64878",
        "name": "company.com"
      },
      "updatedAt": "2022-09-20T15:25:21.684Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

</div>
