docs/api-examples/index.mdx, before:

---
slug: /api-examples
id: index
---

# API Examples

Superface is the AI for APIs. It makes creating API integrations faster, and more manageable so you can focus on developing your application.

<div className="row padding-bottom--lg">
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/hubspot" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>HubSpot</h3>
          <p>
            Use the HubSpot V3 API to retrive a list of companies in the CRM.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/infobip" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>InfoBip</h3>
          <p>Send an SMS message from your virtual number to another number.</p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/notion" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Notion</h3>
          <p>
            This use case allows you to list all of the users in your Notion
            workspace.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/pagerduty" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>PagerDuty</h3>
          <p>
            List the most recent reported incidents from your PagerDuty account.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/pipedrive" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Pipedrive</h3>
          <p>
            This use case allows you to list all of the Organizations in your
            Pipedrive CRM.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/resend" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Resend</h3>
          <p>
            Uses Resend's email API to send an email message from an application
            to a specific email address.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/slack" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Slack</h3>
          <p>
            Uses Slack's Web API to list 5 public channels in your Slack
            workspace.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

Commit message:

update title to Tools instead of API

docs/api-examples/index.mdx, after:

---
slug: /tool-examples
id: index
---

# Tool Examples

Superface's agent relys on tools in order to access external systems and perform the tasks that you require. Below are some walkthrough examples of creating tools that can be used directly in the agent interface with popular services such as HubSpot, Pipedrive, Slack and more.

<div className="row padding-bottom--lg">
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/hubspot" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>HubSpot</h3>
          <p>
            Use the HubSpot V3 API to retrive a list of companies in the CRM.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/infobip" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>InfoBip</h3>
          <p>Send an SMS message from your virtual number to another number.</p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/notion" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Notion</h3>
          <p>
            This use case allows you to list all of the users in your Notion
            workspace.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/pagerduty" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>PagerDuty</h3>
          <p>
            List the most recent reported incidents from your PagerDuty account.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/pipedrive" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Pipedrive</h3>
          <p>
            This use case allows you to list all of the Organizations in your
            Pipedrive CRM.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/resend" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Resend</h3>
          <p>
            Uses Resend's email API to send an email message from an application
            to a specific email address.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card shadow">
      <a href="/docs/api-examples/slack" className="menu__link">
        <div className="card__body">
          <h3>Slack</h3>
          <p>
            Uses Slack's Web API to list 5 public channels in your Slack
            workspace.
          </p>
        </div>
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
