docs/api-examples/infobip.mdx, before:

# Infobip

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Infobip](https://www.infobip.com/docs) API to produce a working use case that can send an SMS message to any number.

:::info Before you start

You'll need an Infobip account. Sign up and get free message credit, and a shared sender number from [Infobip](https://infobip.com). They will automatically assign you can API key when you register.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Infobip has great documentation for all their endpoints. The endpoint needed for this use case is [Send SMS Message](https://www.infobip.com/docs/api/channels/sms/sms-messaging/outbound-sms/send-sms-message).

```shell
superface prepare https://www.infobip.com/docs/api/channels/sms/sms-messaging/outbound-sms/send-sms-message "infobip"
```

### Edit the Infobip provider

Once the documentation has been indexed, you will need to edit the `infobip.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API endpoint and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

:::note INFOBIP BASE URL
InfoBip uses a personalized base URL for each customer. You will need to replace the `baseURL` value in the provider example below with your own. You can find yours on the [API documentation](https://www.infobip.com/docs/api) or [InfoBip Portal Homepage](https://portal.infobip.com/homepage/).
:::

```json title="infobip.provider.json"
{
  "name": "infobip",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "services": [
    {
      "id": "default",
      "baseUrl": "<YOUR_INFOBIP_BASE_URL>"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "id": "infobipApiKey",
      "type": "apiKey",
      "in": "header",
      "name": "Authorization"
    }
  ],
  "parameters": []
}
```

### Define your use case

Next, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve, which in this case is to send an SMS message.

```shell
superface new infobip "send an sms"
```

A file called `sms-messaging-outbound-sms.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of this. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map infobip sms-messaging/outbound-sms
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Infobip API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file.

:::note
You need to include the prefix `App` before your API key in your environment, this will ensure that Superface can meet the format required by InfoBip's API. For example, `INFOBIP_API_KEY="App <your-infobip-api-key>"`.
:::

### Set up your inputs

In order to send an email correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Infobip documentation so it contains a real number that can receive an SMS. From the `superface` folder, open `sms-messaging.outbound-sms.infobip.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23 so it is the same as the object shown below.

```js
{
    from : 'InfoSMS',
    to : '+0987654321', // replace with your own number
    text : 'Hello, this is an example SMS.'
},
```

### Test it

To test this use case you can use the `execute` command. Switch to the `superface` directory and run:

```shell
superface execute resend email-communication/email-sending
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```json
RESULT: {
  "messages": [
    {
      "messageId": "38916146354362316528",
      "smsCount": 1,
      "status": {
        "description": "Message sent to next instance",
        "groupId": 1,
        "groupName": "PENDING",
        "id": 7,
        "name": "PENDING_ENROUTE"
      },
      "to": "0987654321"
    }
  ]
}
```

</div>

Commit message:

update to make non homebrew install clearer

docs/api-examples/infobip.mdx, after:

# Infobip

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Infobip](https://www.infobip.com/docs) API to produce a working use case that can send an SMS message to any number.

:::info Before you start

You'll need an Infobip account. Sign up and get free message credit, and a shared sender number from [Infobip](https://infobip.com). They will automatically assign you can API key when you register.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

The Superface CLI provides all the tooling needed to author the Comlinks for your integration and can be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on MacOS/Linux or [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) on Windows.

```shell title="Install with Homebrew"
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

```shell title="Install with NPM"
npm install -g @superfaceai/cli@latest
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Infobip has great documentation for all their endpoints. The endpoint needed for this use case is [Send SMS Message](https://www.infobip.com/docs/api/channels/sms/sms-messaging/outbound-sms/send-sms-message).

```shell
superface prepare https://www.infobip.com/docs/api/channels/sms/sms-messaging/outbound-sms/send-sms-message "infobip"
```

### Edit the Infobip provider

Once the documentation has been indexed, you will need to edit the `infobip.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API endpoint and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

:::note INFOBIP BASE URL
InfoBip uses a personalized base URL for each customer. You will need to replace the `baseURL` value in the provider example below with your own. You can find yours on the [API documentation](https://www.infobip.com/docs/api) or [InfoBip Portal Homepage](https://portal.infobip.com/homepage/).
:::

```json title="infobip.provider.json"
{
  "name": "infobip",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "services": [
    {
      "id": "default",
      "baseUrl": "<YOUR_INFOBIP_BASE_URL>"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "id": "infobipApiKey",
      "type": "apiKey",
      "in": "header",
      "name": "Authorization"
    }
  ],
  "parameters": []
}
```

### Define your use case

Next, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve, which in this case is to send an SMS message.

```shell
superface new infobip "send an sms"
```

A file called `sms-messaging-outbound-sms.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of this. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map infobip sms-messaging/outbound-sms
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Infobip API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file.

:::note
You need to include the prefix `App` before your API key in your environment, this will ensure that Superface can meet the format required by InfoBip's API. For example, `INFOBIP_API_KEY="App <your-infobip-api-key>"`.
:::

### Set up your inputs

In order to send an email correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Infobip documentation so it contains a real number that can receive an SMS. From the `superface` folder, open `sms-messaging.outbound-sms.infobip.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23 so it is the same as the object shown below.

```js
{
    from : 'InfoSMS',
    to : '+0987654321', // replace with your own number
    text : 'Hello, this is an example SMS.'
},
```

### Test it

To test this use case you can use the `execute` command. Switch to the `superface` directory and run:

```shell
superface execute resend email-communication/email-sending
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```json
RESULT: {
  "messages": [
    {
      "messageId": "38916146354362316528",
      "smsCount": 1,
      "status": {
        "description": "Message sent to next instance",
        "groupId": 1,
        "groupName": "PENDING",
        "id": 7,
        "name": "PENDING_ENROUTE"
      },
      "to": "0987654321"
    }
  ]
}
```

</div>
