docs/api-examples/lob.mdx, before:

# Lob

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Lob API](https://www.lob.com/use-cases/developers) and produce a working use case that adds a new address that can be used to send postcards, letters, and even checks.

:::info Before you start

You will need a Lob API key. Find out how to set that up in the [API Keys](https://dashboard.lob.com/settings/api-keys) section of your Lob Account Settings.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Lob's documentation is available in [Open API Specification format](https://github.com/lob/lob-openapi/blob/main/lob-api-public.yml), this can be used as the documentation reference for this use case.

```shell
superface prepare https://github.com/lob/lob-openapi/blob/main/lob-api-public.yml lob
```

Once the documentation has been prepared, you will need to edit the `lob.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API base URL and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="lob.provider.json"
{
  "name": "lob",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "services": [
    {
      "id": "default",
      "baseUrl": "https://api.lob.com"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "id": "lobBasicAuth",
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "basic"
    }
  ],
  "parameters": []
}
```

### Define your use case

Next, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve, which in this case is to get add a new address to the address list in your Lob account.

```shell
superface new lob "add a new address"
```

A file called `address-management.new-address.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map lob address-management/new-address
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Lob API key in your environment, please add the following two variables: `LOB_USERNAME` and `LOB_PASSWORD`.

Lob uses the Basic Auth security scheme but only expects that the Username field be populated, with the Password field left blank.

You can use a Test Environment API Key from your [Lob Account Settings](https://dashboard.lob.com/settings/api-keys) as the value for the `LOB_USERNAME`.

```bash
LOB_USERNAME=<your-lob-api-key>
LOB_PASSWORD=""
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute lob address-management/new-address
```

If successful, you will see a JSON response of the test address added to your Lob address list.

```json
RESULT: {
  "address_city": "SAN FRANCISCO",
  "address_country": "UNITED STATES",
  "address_line1": "123 MAIN ST APT 4B",
  "address_line2": null,
  "address_state": "CA",
  "address_zip": "94105-1804",
  "company": "LOB",
  "date_created": "2023-07-12T15:23:10.648Z",
  "date_modified": "2023-07-12T15:23:10.648Z",
  "description": "John Doe's Home Address",
  "email": "john.doe@example.com",
  "id": "adr_0619c5c15f8b9036",
  "metadata": {},
  "name": "JOHN DOE",
  "object": "address",
  "phone": "555-555-5555"
}
```

</div>

Commit message:

update to make non homebrew install clearer

docs/api-examples/lob.mdx, after:

# Lob

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Lob API](https://www.lob.com/use-cases/developers) and produce a working use case that adds a new address that can be used to send postcards, letters, and even checks.

:::info Before you start

You will need a Lob API key. Find out how to set that up in the [API Keys](https://dashboard.lob.com/settings/api-keys) section of your Lob Account Settings.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

The Superface CLI provides all the tooling needed to author the Comlinks for your integration and can be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on MacOS/Linux or [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) on Windows.

```shell title="Install with Homebrew"
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

```shell title="Install with NPM"
npm install -g @superfaceai/cli@latest
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Lob's documentation is available in [Open API Specification format](https://github.com/lob/lob-openapi/blob/main/lob-api-public.yml), this can be used as the documentation reference for this use case.

```shell
superface prepare https://github.com/lob/lob-openapi/blob/main/lob-api-public.yml lob
```

Once the documentation has been prepared, you will need to edit the `lob.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API base URL and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="lob.provider.json"
{
  "name": "lob",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "services": [
    {
      "id": "default",
      "baseUrl": "https://api.lob.com"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "id": "lobBasicAuth",
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "basic"
    }
  ],
  "parameters": []
}
```

### Define your use case

Next, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve, which in this case is to get add a new address to the address list in your Lob account.

```shell
superface new lob "add a new address"
```

A file called `address-management.new-address.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map lob address-management/new-address
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Lob API key in your environment, please add the following two variables: `LOB_USERNAME` and `LOB_PASSWORD`.

Lob uses the Basic Auth security scheme but only expects that the Username field be populated, with the Password field left blank.

You can use a Test Environment API Key from your [Lob Account Settings](https://dashboard.lob.com/settings/api-keys) as the value for the `LOB_USERNAME`.

```bash
LOB_USERNAME=<your-lob-api-key>
LOB_PASSWORD=""
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute lob address-management/new-address
```

If successful, you will see a JSON response of the test address added to your Lob address list.

```json
RESULT: {
  "address_city": "SAN FRANCISCO",
  "address_country": "UNITED STATES",
  "address_line1": "123 MAIN ST APT 4B",
  "address_line2": null,
  "address_state": "CA",
  "address_zip": "94105-1804",
  "company": "LOB",
  "date_created": "2023-07-12T15:23:10.648Z",
  "date_modified": "2023-07-12T15:23:10.648Z",
  "description": "John Doe's Home Address",
  "email": "john.doe@example.com",
  "id": "adr_0619c5c15f8b9036",
  "metadata": {},
  "name": "JOHN DOE",
  "object": "address",
  "phone": "555-555-5555"
}
```

</div>
