docs/api-examples/notion.mdx, before:

# Notion

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Notion API](https://developers.notion.com) and produce a working use case that allows you to list all of the users in your Notion workspace.

:::info Before you start

You will need to get an API token for a _Notion Internal Integration_ that is valid for the workspace you want to access. Find out how to set that up in the [Notion Authorization documentation](https://developers.notion.com/docs/authorization#making-api-requests-with-an-internal-integration).

Please ensure that the capabilities for your Notion Internal Integration include the User Capability "Read user information without an email address".

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Notion's documentation is hosted by Readme.io, which is a format that Superface can accept without any additional changes so you can copy and paste the URL for the `GET users` endpoint.

```shell
superface prepare https://developers.notion.com/reference/get-users
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you will need to edit the `notion.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API endpoint and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="notion.provider.json"
{
  "name": "notion",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "parameters": [],
  "services": [
    {
      "baseUrl": "https://api.notion.com",
      "id": "default"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "bearer",
      "id": "bearerAuth"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Define your use case

```shell
superface new notion "list all users"
```

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map notion notion-workspace/user-listing
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Notion API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `NOTION_TOKEN=<your-notion-api-key>`.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the users correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Notion documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `notion-workspace.user-listing.notion.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js title="notion-workspace.user-listing.notion.mjs"
{
    notionVersion : '2022-06-28',
    page_size: 10,
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute notion notion-workspace/user-listing
```

If successful, you will see a JSON response listing the users in your workspace.

</div>

Commit message:

update to make non homebrew install clearer

docs/api-examples/notion.mdx, after:

# Notion

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Notion API](https://developers.notion.com) and produce a working use case that allows you to list all of the users in your Notion workspace.

:::info Before you start

You will need to get an API token for a _Notion Internal Integration_ that is valid for the workspace you want to access. Find out how to set that up in the [Notion Authorization documentation](https://developers.notion.com/docs/authorization#making-api-requests-with-an-internal-integration).

Please ensure that the capabilities for your Notion Internal Integration include the User Capability "Read user information without an email address".

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

The Superface CLI provides all the tooling needed to author the Comlinks for your integration and can be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on MacOS/Linux or [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) on Windows.

```shell title="Install with Homebrew"
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

```shell title="Install with NPM"
npm install -g @superfaceai/cli@latest
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Notion's documentation is hosted by Readme.io, which is a format that Superface can accept without any additional changes so you can copy and paste the URL for the `GET users` endpoint.

```shell
superface prepare https://developers.notion.com/reference/get-users
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you will need to edit the `notion.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API endpoint and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="notion.provider.json"
{
  "name": "notion",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "parameters": [],
  "services": [
    {
      "baseUrl": "https://api.notion.com",
      "id": "default"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "bearer",
      "id": "bearerAuth"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Define your use case

```shell
superface new notion "list all users"
```

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map notion notion-workspace/user-listing
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Notion API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `NOTION_TOKEN=<your-notion-api-key>`.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the users correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Notion documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `notion-workspace.user-listing.notion.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js title="notion-workspace.user-listing.notion.mjs"
{
    notionVersion : '2022-06-28',
    page_size: 10,
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute notion notion-workspace/user-listing
```

If successful, you will see a JSON response listing the users in your workspace.

</div>
