docs/api-examples/pagerduty.mdx, before:

# PagerDuty

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [PagerDuty](https://developer.pagerduty.com/) API to produce a working use case that lists the most recent reported incidents.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a PagerDuty API key. For testing purposes you can get one directly from their [API documentation](https://developer.pagerduty.com/api-reference/f1a95bb9397ba-changelog).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

PagerDuty's API is available as an [Open API Specification](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PagerDuty/api-schema/main/reference/REST/openapiv3.json), you can use this as the documentation source.

```shell
superface prepare https://github.com/PagerDuty/api-schema/blob/main/reference/REST/openapiv3.json "pagerduty"
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you will need to edit the `pagerduty.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API base URL and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="pagerduty.provider.json"
{
  "name": "pagerduty",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "parameters": [],
  "services": [
    {
      "baseUrl": "https://api.pagerduty.com",
      "id": "default"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "type": "apiKey",
      "in": "header",
      "name": "Authorization",
      "id": "pagerdutyToken"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Define your use case

Next, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve, which in this case is to get a list of companies in the CRM.

```shell
superface new pagerduty "get incidents"
```

A file called `incident-management.get-incidents.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of this. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map pagerduty incident-management/get-incidents
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your PagerDuty API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `PAGERDUTY_API_KEY="Token token=<your-pagerduty-api-key>"`.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the incidents correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the PagerDuty documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `incident-management.get-incidents.pagerduty.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js
{
    time_zone : 'UTC',
    since : '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z',
    until : '2022-01-31T23:59:59Z',
    date_range : 'all',
    sort_by : 'created_at',
    sort_direction : 'asc',
    offset: 0,
    limit: 25,
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute pagerduty incident-management/get-incidents
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```bash
RESULT: {
  "incidents": [
    {
      "acknowledgements": [],
      "alert_counts": {
        "all": 0,
        "resolved": 0,
        "triggered": 0
      }...
```

</div>

Commit message:

update to make non homebrew install clearer

docs/api-examples/pagerduty.mdx, after:

# PagerDuty

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [PagerDuty](https://developer.pagerduty.com/) API to produce a working use case that lists the most recent reported incidents.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a PagerDuty API key. For testing purposes you can get one directly from their [API documentation](https://developer.pagerduty.com/api-reference/f1a95bb9397ba-changelog).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

The Superface CLI provides all the tooling needed to author the Comlinks for your integration and can be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on MacOS/Linux or [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) on Windows.

```shell title="Install with Homebrew"
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

```shell title="Install with NPM"
npm install -g @superfaceai/cli@latest
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

PagerDuty's API is available as an [Open API Specification](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PagerDuty/api-schema/main/reference/REST/openapiv3.json), you can use this as the documentation source.

```shell
superface prepare https://github.com/PagerDuty/api-schema/blob/main/reference/REST/openapiv3.json "pagerduty"
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you will need to edit the `pagerduty.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API base URL and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="pagerduty.provider.json"
{
  "name": "pagerduty",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "parameters": [],
  "services": [
    {
      "baseUrl": "https://api.pagerduty.com",
      "id": "default"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "type": "apiKey",
      "in": "header",
      "name": "Authorization",
      "id": "pagerdutyToken"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Define your use case

Next, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve, which in this case is to get a list of companies in the CRM.

```shell
superface new pagerduty "get incidents"
```

A file called `incident-management.get-incidents.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of this. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map pagerduty incident-management/get-incidents
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your PagerDuty API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `PAGERDUTY_API_KEY="Token token=<your-pagerduty-api-key>"`.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the incidents correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the PagerDuty documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `incident-management.get-incidents.pagerduty.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js
{
    time_zone : 'UTC',
    since : '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z',
    until : '2022-01-31T23:59:59Z',
    date_range : 'all',
    sort_by : 'created_at',
    sort_direction : 'asc',
    offset: 0,
    limit: 25,
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute pagerduty incident-management/get-incidents
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```bash
RESULT: {
  "incidents": [
    {
      "acknowledgements": [],
      "alert_counts": {
        "all": 0,
        "resolved": 0,
        "triggered": 0
      }...
```

</div>
