docs/api-examples/pipedrive.mdx, before:

# Pipedrive

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Pipedrive API](https://developers.pipedrive.com/docs/api/v1) and produce a working use case that allows you to list all of the Organizations in your Pipedrive CRM.

:::info Before you start

You'll need to get an API token that is valid for the CRM you want to access. Find out how to set that up in the [Pipedrive Authorization documentation](https://pipedrive.readme.io/docs/core-api-concepts-authentication).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Pipedrive's documentation is available as an [Open API 3 specification document](https://developers.pipedrive.com/docs/api/v1/openapi.yaml) that is regularly maintained. Use this for a complete index of their API capabilities.

```shell
superface prepare https://developers.pipedrive.com/docs/api/v1/openapi.yaml pipedrive
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve.

```shell
superface new pipedrive "list all organizations"
```

A file called `organizations-management.get-organizations.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map pipedrive organizations-management/get-organizations
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Pipedrive API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `PIPEDRIVE_API_KEY=<your-pipedrive-api-key>"`.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the organizations correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Pipedrive documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `organizations-management.get-organizations.pipedrive.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js title="organizations-management.get-organizations.pipedrive.mjs"
{
  start: 0,
  limit: 10,
  sort : 'name ASC',
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute pipedrive organizations-management/get-organizations
```

If successful, you will see a JSON response listing the contacts in your CRM workspace.

</div>

Commit message:

update with clearer reference for where to find the API key

docs/api-examples/pipedrive.mdx, after:

# Pipedrive

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Pipedrive API](https://developers.pipedrive.com/docs/api/v1) and produce a working use case that allows you to list all of the Organizations in your Pipedrive CRM.

:::info Before you start

You'll need to get an API token that is valid for the CRM you want to access. Find out how to set that up in the [Pipedrive Authorization documentation](https://pipedrive.readme.io/docs/core-api-concepts-authentication).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Pipedrive's documentation is available as an [Open API 3 specification document](https://developers.pipedrive.com/docs/api/v1/openapi.yaml) that is regularly maintained. Use this for a complete index of their API capabilities.

```shell
superface prepare https://developers.pipedrive.com/docs/api/v1/openapi.yaml pipedrive
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve.

```shell
superface new pipedrive "list all organizations"
```

A file called `organizations-management.get-organizations.profile` will be created in the `superface` folder as a result of. This is a Comlink file that decribes the input and output expectations that the API expects to achieve this use case.

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map pipedrive organizations-management/get-organizations
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Pipedrive API key in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `PIPEDRIVE_API_KEY=<your-pipedrive-api-key>"`.

For help finding your Pipedrive API Key, please refer to their [How to find the API token](https://pipedrive.readme.io/docs/how-to-find-the-api-token) documentation.

### Set up your inputs

In order to list the organizations correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Pipedrive documentation so it contains a real request object. From the `superface` folder, open `organizations-management.get-organizations.pipedrive.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js title="organizations-management.get-organizations.pipedrive.mjs"
{
  start: 0,
  limit: 10,
  sort : 'name ASC',
}
```

### Test it

To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute pipedrive organizations-management/get-organizations
```

If successful, you will see a JSON response listing the contacts in your CRM workspace.

</div>
