docs/api-examples/resend.mdx, before:

# Resend

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Resend](https://resend.com/) email API to produce a working use case that allows you to send an email from an application.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a Resend API token. Find out how to set that up in the [Resend documentation](https://resend.com/docs/introduction).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Resend have an [OAS version](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/resendlabs/resend-openapi/main/resend.yaml) of their API, but their [API Reference](https://resend.com/docs/api-reference/introduction) can also be used without any additional changes so you can copy and paste the URL for the `send email` endpoint.

```shell
superface prepare https://raw.githubusercontent.com/resendlabs/resend-openapi/main/resend.yaml
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve.

```shell
superface new resend "send an email"
```

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the profile into the JavaScript map and boilerplate code, run the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map resend email-communication/email-sending
```

### Set up your inputs

In order to send an email correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Resend documentation so it contains a real email address. From the `superface` folder, open `email-communication.email-sending.resend.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23. Be sure to enter your own email address as the value for `to`.

```js
     {
        to : 'youremail@yourdomain.com',
        from : 'onboarding@resend.dev',
        subject : 'Hello, World!',
        html : '<p>Hello, World!</p>',
        text : 'Hello, World!',
      }
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Resend API token in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `RESEND_TOKEN=<your-resend-token>"`.

You can create a new API Token from the [API Keys section](https://resend.com/api-keys) of your Resend Account.

### Test it

:::note Don't forget your authentication

Superface expects an authorization token for Resend. You can add this as `RESEND_TOKEN` in your environment or create an `.env` file in the `superface` folder that the CLI created. To learn more how to handle API credentials, see [Setting provider API keys](../guides/api-keys.md).

:::

The resulting code from the previous step is added to the `superface` folder in your project. To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute resend email-communication/email-sending
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```bash
RESULT: {
  "id": "9d5c7482-d197-406f-b8f9-9a4c0cb7d5f9"
}
```

</div>

Commit message:

update Resend with guidance on the test email to field

docs/api-examples/resend.mdx, after:

# Resend

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Resend](https://resend.com/) email API to produce a working use case that allows you to send an email from an application.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a Resend API token. Find out how to set that up in the [Resend documentation](https://resend.com/docs/introduction).

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

Resend have an [OAS version](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/resendlabs/resend-openapi/main/resend.yaml) of their API, but their [API Reference](https://resend.com/docs/api-reference/introduction) can also be used without any additional changes so you can copy and paste the URL for the `send email` endpoint.

```shell
superface prepare https://raw.githubusercontent.com/resendlabs/resend-openapi/main/resend.yaml
```

Once the documentation has been indexed, you can create a profile for the use case you want to achieve.

```shell
superface new resend "send an email"
```

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the profile into the JavaScript map and boilerplate code, run the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map resend email-communication/email-sending
```

### Set up your inputs

In order to send an email correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Resend documentation so it contains a real email address. From the `superface` folder, open `email-communication.email-sending.resend.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23. Be sure to enter your own email address as the value for `to`.

```js
     {
        to : 'youremail@yourdomain.com',
        from : 'onboarding@resend.dev',
        subject : 'Hello, World!',
        html : '<p>Hello, World!</p>',
        text : 'Hello, World!',
      }
```

:::note Sending a test email
Resend only allows test emails to be sent to the email address registered on the account. The `to` value in the example above must be set to this.
:::

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Resend API token in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `RESEND_TOKEN=<your-resend-token>"`.

You can create a new API Token from the [API Keys section](https://resend.com/api-keys) of your Resend Account. Please ensure the Permission is set for _Sending Access_.

### Test it

The resulting code from the previous step is added to the `superface` folder in your project. To test it you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute resend email-communication/email-sending
```

If everything is successful you should see output similar to the response below:

```bash
RESULT: {
  "id": "9d5c7482-d197-406f-b8f9-9a4c0cb7d5f9"
}
```

</div>
