docs/api-examples/slack.mdx, before:

# Slack

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Slack API](https://api.slack.com/) to produce a working use case that allows you to list all of the users in your Slack workspace. Here we are using an endpoint from Slack's [Web API](https://api.slack.com/web) that requires a more minimal level of authentication.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a Slack API token that is valid for the workspace you want to access. Find out how to set that up in their [Getting a token](https://api.slack.com/tutorials/tracks/getting-a-token) guide.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

The Slack documentation is available in OAS format. You can find the Open API Specs for their APIs on the [Slack GitHub](https://github.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/tree/master/web-api). Here we are using the OAS for their [Web API](https://api.slack.com/web).

```shell
superface prepare https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/web-api/slack_web_openapi_v2.json slack
```

Next, you will need to edit the `slack.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API endpoint and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="slack.provider.json"
{
  "name": "slack",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "services": [
    {
      "id": "default",
      "baseUrl": "https://slack.com/api"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "id": "bearer_token",
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "bearer"
    }
  ],
  "parameters": []
}
```

### Define your use case

```shell
superface new slack "list all workspace members"
```

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map slack workspace-management/list-users
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Slack API token in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `SLACK_TOKEN=<your-slack-api-token>"`.

### Test it

To test this use case you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute slack workspace-management/list-users
```

If you get an error at this point, you should check the inputs that are being passed as part of the request made by `useCase.perform` in `workspace-management.list-users.slack.mjs`, as you may need to change it to match your own Slack instance.

If everything is successful you will see a JSON response listing the users in your Slack workspace.

</div>

Commit message:

change the use case, update the commands and add the expected inputs and provider details

docs/api-examples/slack.mdx, after:

# Slack

In this example, we will show you how you can get started working with the [Slack API](https://api.slack.com/) to produce a working use case that allows you to list 5 public channels in your Slack workspace. Here we are using an endpoint from Slack's [Web API](https://api.slack.com/web) that requires a more minimal level of authentication.

:::info Before you start

You'll need a Slack API token that is valid for the workspace you want to access. Find out how to set that up in their [Getting a token](https://api.slack.com/tutorials/tracks/getting-a-token) guide.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Install & Authorize Superface

Start by insalling the Superface CLI. You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for this.

```shell
brew install superfaceai/cli/superface
```

If you don't have a Superface account already, you can [sign up here](https://superface.ai/create-account). You can use your account to authenticate the CLI.

```shell
superface login
```

### Prepare the documentation

The Slack documentation is available in OAS format. You can find the Open API Specs for their APIs on the [Slack GitHub](https://github.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/tree/master/web-api). Here we are using the OAS for their [Web API](https://api.slack.com/web).

```shell
superface prepare https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/web-api/slack_web_openapi_v2.json slack
```

Next, you will need to edit the `slack.provider.json` that has been created to ensure that the correct API endpoint and security policy are used. The exact provider definition you need to use is below:

```json title="slack.provider.json"
{
  "name": "slack",
  "defaultService": "default",
  "services": [
    {
      "id": "default",
      "baseUrl": "https://slack.com/api"
    }
  ],
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "id": "slackBearerToken",
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "bearer"
    }
  ],
  "parameters": []
}
```

### Define your use case

```shell
superface new slack "list all channels"
```

### Turn the Comlink into code

To turn the Comlink profile into runnable code, use the following command and include the name of the provider and a use case profile you want to work with.

```shell
superface map slack slack-channels/fetch-channels
```

### Set up your inputs

In order to process this request correctly, you will need to modify the boilerplate code from the Slack documentation to remove some values. From the `superface` folder, open `slack-channels.fetch-channels.slack.mjs` and modify the object that starts on line 23.

```js title="slack-channels.fetch-channels.slack.mjs"
{
    exclude_archived: true,
    types : 'public_channel',
    limit: 5
},
```

### Add your API key

If you don't already have your Slack API token in your environment, you can add it to your `.env` file as `SLACK_TOKEN=<your-slack-api-token>"`.

### Test it

To test this use case you can use the `execute` command.

```shell
superface execute slack slack slack-channels/fetch-channels
```

If everything is successful you will see a JSON response listing 5 public channels in your Slack workspace.

</div>
