docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

import HowItWorksDiagram from '../assets/getting-started-how-superface-works.svg';

# Getting started

Superface is all about you, the consumer of API capabilities. To get started, first pick a capability and its provider, install it to your App and use Superface OneSDK to make the call.

## How Superface works

Unlike every other API client, absolutely **no API information is hard-coded in your App or the SDK**.

The instructions how to make a call are downloaded during your App runtime and resolved by OneSDK to make a **direct HTTP** call to the API. The calls go straight from your App to the provider's API and are **never proxied through Superface**. This lets you change the instructions at runtime without updating or redeploying your App. You can even change providers while it’s running.

<figure>
  <HowItWorksDiagram />
  <figcaption>
    During the app development you install a capability and OneSDK. In the
    runtime the instructions for calling the API are downloaded from the
    Superface registry and the API is called directly from your app.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Superface in 3 minutes

The following steps will guide you how to quickly get started with Superface and OneSDK.

:::info Prerequisites

This guide assumes you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.dev/) version 14 or newer installed.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Pick a capability

Decide what capability you would like to use in your App. A capability is described by its profile with unique ID.

In this guide we will use the capability **List user repositories of a VCS** like GitHub or GitLab. Its ID is `vcs/user-repos`.

:::note Capability details

To see a detailed description of the capability, check the [`vcs/user-repos` profile page](https://superface.ai/vcs/user-repos).

:::

### Pick a provider

The next step is to **pick a provider you would like to use**. In this guide we will use the `github`.

:::note Additional providers

Find the list of supported capability providers at [`vcs/user-repos` profile page](https://superface.ai/vcs/user-repos).

:::

### Install OneSDK

In your App directory, install the OneSDK library:

```shell
npm install @superfaceai/one-sdk
```

### Install the capability

Next, add the `vcs/user-repos` capability to your App using the Superface CLI:

```shell
npx @superfaceai/cli install vcs/user-repos
```

### Configure the provider

The next step is to configure the provider. In our case we configure `github` for capability profile `vcs/user-repos`:

```shell
npx @superfaceai/cli configure github --profile vcs/user-repos
```

:::note Provider authentication
In many cases you also need to set up provider credentials. Since we
are using the unauthenticated GitHub API we can skip it for now.

<!-- TODO:
To learn how to authenticate providers check the provider authentication.
-->

:::

### Code

Finally, use OneSDK in your App. Create the `index.js` file with the following JavaScript code:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

```js title="index.js"
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');
const sdk = new SuperfaceClient();

async function main() {
  // Load the capability profile
  const profile = await sdk.getProfile('vcs/user-repos');

  // Invoke the capability use case
  const result = await profile
    .getUseCase('UserRepos')
    .perform({
      user: 'superfaceai',
    });

  // Handle the result
  try {
    const data = result.unwrap();
    console.log(data);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error(error);
  }
}

main();
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### Run

With the capability installed, provider configured, and OneSDK, it is the time to execute your App:

```shell
node index.js
```

<details>
<summary>Example output</summary>

```
{
  repos: [
    { name: 'ast-js', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'astexplorer',
      description: 'A web tool to explore the ASTs generated by various parsers.'
    },
    {
      name: 'cli',
      description: 'Superface CLI provides access to Superface tooling from the CLI.'
    },
    {
      name: 'demo-ballistic-sombrero',
      description: 'Demo of Koana Islands Weather Alerts provider'
    },
    {
      name: 'demo-koana-islands',
      description: 'Demo of Koana Islands Weather Alerts'
    },
    {
      name: 'demo-winter-beechnut',
      description: 'Demo of an alternative Koana Islands Weather Alerts provider'
    },
    { name: 'docs', description: 'Official Superface documentation' },
    { name: 'email-demo', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'example-glitch-email',
      description: 'Glitch example showcasing email failover on SendEmail use case'
    },
    {
      name: 'example-glitch-geocode',
      description: 'Glitch example showcasing Geocode use case'
    },
    {
      name: 'example-glitch-reverse-geocode',
      description: 'Glitch example showcasing ReverseGeocode use case'
    },
    {
      name: 'language-client-vscode',
      description: 'VS Code extension that provides a client for the Superface Language server and syntax highlighting definitions.'
    },
    { name: 'language-server', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'one-sdk-js',
      description: 'Superface core client library'
    },
    {
      name: 'parser',
      description: 'Superface profile and map format parser'
    },
    {
      name: 'profiles',
      description: 'Source repository of public profiles'
    },
    { name: 'release-changelog-action', description: undefined },
    { name: 'resilient-email-tutorial', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'service-client',
      description: 'Library provides client for superface backend apis.'
    },
    {
      name: 'spec',
      description: 'Comlink Specification (Comlink, a new interface description and integration language) '
    },
    { name: 'station', description: 'Superface capabilities' },
    {
      name: 'superdriver',
      description: 'DEPRECATED: The original version of Superface SDK based on ALPS profile and OAS extensions. Do not use.'
    },
    { name: 'superface-cli', description: 'Superface CLI tool' },
    {
      name: 'testing-lib',
      description: 'Library to enable easier testing of capabilities.'
    }
  ]
}
```

</details>

### Check the HTTP communication

Set the environment variable `DEBUG` to `superface:http*` to see API calls from OneSDK to GitHub API:

```shell
DEBUG="superface:http*" node index.js
```

:::caution
This can print out potentially sensitive information.
:::

Set the DEBUG value to `*` to see everything what is going in under the hood. Check [OneSDK's documentation and source code](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js) for more details.

### Understand runtime integration

During the App runtime OneSDK downloaded a Comlink map from Superface servers. The Comlink map instructs the OneSDK how to make the direct call to GitHub API to perform the capability.

You can always check the Comlink map at profile's detail page for the given provider by clicking the "raw" link. For example here's the [latest map for `vcs/user-repos` and `github`](https://superface.ai/raw/vcs/user-repos.github@1.0.suma).

</div>

## Next step

With your first capability set up, you can now [start monitoring the integrations](./integrations-monitoring.mdx) in Superface dashboard.

Commit message:

feat(guides): Revisit Getting started (#49)
Co-authored-by: Z <zdne@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

import HowItWorksDiagram from '../assets/getting-started-how-superface-works.svg';

# Getting started

Superface is all about you, the consumer of API capabilities. To get started, first pick a capability and its provider, install it to your App and use Superface OneSDK to make the call.

:::info

This guide is more detailed version of the in-product [Getting started](https://superface.ai/getting-started) available at superface.ai.

You don't need an account at superface.ai to follow this guide.

:::

## How Superface works

Unlike every other API client, absolutely **no API information is hard-coded in your App or the SDK**.

The instructions how to make a call are downloaded during your App runtime and resolved by OneSDK to make a **direct HTTP call** to the API. The calls go straight from your App to the provider's API and are **never proxied through Superface**. This lets you change the instructions at runtime without updating or redeploying your App. You can even change providers while it’s running.

<figure>
  <HowItWorksDiagram />
  <figcaption>
    During the app development you install a capability and OneSDK. In the
    runtime the instructions for calling the API are downloaded from the
    Superface registry and the API is called directly from your app.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Superface in 3 minutes

The following steps will guide you how to quickly get started with Superface and OneSDK.

:::info Prerequisites

This guide assumes you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.dev/) version 14 or newer installed.

:::

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Pick a capability

Decide what capability you would like to use in your App. A capability is described by its profile with unique ID.

In this guide we will use the capability **List user repositories of a VCS** like GitHub or GitLab. Its ID is `vcs/user-repos`.

:::note Capability details

To see a detailed description of the capability, check the [`vcs/user-repos` profile page](https://superface.ai/vcs/user-repos).

:::

### Pick a provider

The next step is to **pick a provider you would like to use**. In this guide we will use the `github`.

:::note Additional providers

Find the list of supported capability providers at [`vcs/user-repos` profile page](https://superface.ai/vcs/user-repos).

:::

### Install OneSDK

In your App directory, install the OneSDK library:

```shell
npm install @superfaceai/one-sdk
```

### Install the capability

Next, add the `vcs/user-repos` capability to your App using the Superface CLI:

```shell
npx @superfaceai/cli install vcs/user-repos
```

### Configure the provider

The next step is to configure the provider. In our case we configure `github` for capability profile `vcs/user-repos`:

```shell
npx @superfaceai/cli configure github --profile vcs/user-repos
```

:::note Provider authentication
In many cases you also need to set up provider credentials. Since we
are using the unauthenticated GitHub API we can skip it for now.

To learn how to handle API credentials, see [Setting provider API keys](guides/api-keys.md).

:::

### Code

Finally, use OneSDK in your App. Create the `index.js` file with the following JavaScript code:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

```js title="index.js"
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');
const sdk = new SuperfaceClient();

async function main() {
  // Load the capability profile
  const profile = await sdk.getProfile('vcs/user-repos');

  // Invoke the capability use case
  const result = await profile
    .getUseCase('UserRepos')
    .perform({
      user: 'superfaceai',
    });

  // Handle the result
  try {
    const data = result.unwrap();
    console.log(data);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error(error);
  }
}

main();
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### Run

With the capability installed, provider configured, and OneSDK, it is the time to execute your App:

```shell
node index.js
```

<details>
<summary>Example output</summary>

```
{
  repos: [
    { name: 'ast-js', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'astexplorer',
      description: 'A web tool to explore the ASTs generated by various parsers.'
    },
    {
      name: 'cli',
      description: 'Superface CLI provides access to Superface tooling from the CLI.'
    },
    {
      name: 'demo-ballistic-sombrero',
      description: 'Demo of Koana Islands Weather Alerts provider'
    },
    {
      name: 'demo-koana-islands',
      description: 'Demo of Koana Islands Weather Alerts'
    },
    {
      name: 'demo-winter-beechnut',
      description: 'Demo of an alternative Koana Islands Weather Alerts provider'
    },
    { name: 'docs', description: 'Official Superface documentation' },
    { name: 'email-demo', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'example-glitch-email',
      description: 'Glitch example showcasing email failover on SendEmail use case'
    },
    {
      name: 'example-glitch-geocode',
      description: 'Glitch example showcasing Geocode use case'
    },
    {
      name: 'example-glitch-reverse-geocode',
      description: 'Glitch example showcasing ReverseGeocode use case'
    },
    {
      name: 'language-client-vscode',
      description: 'VS Code extension that provides a client for the Superface Language server and syntax highlighting definitions.'
    },
    { name: 'language-server', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'one-sdk-js',
      description: 'Superface core client library'
    },
    {
      name: 'parser',
      description: 'Superface profile and map format parser'
    },
    {
      name: 'profiles',
      description: 'Source repository of public profiles'
    },
    { name: 'release-changelog-action', description: undefined },
    { name: 'resilient-email-tutorial', description: undefined },
    {
      name: 'service-client',
      description: 'Library provides client for superface backend apis.'
    },
    {
      name: 'spec',
      description: 'Comlink Specification (Comlink, a new interface description and integration language) '
    },
    { name: 'station', description: 'Superface capabilities' },
    {
      name: 'superdriver',
      description: 'DEPRECATED: The original version of Superface SDK based on ALPS profile and OAS extensions. Do not use.'
    },
    { name: 'superface-cli', description: 'Superface CLI tool' },
    {
      name: 'testing-lib',
      description: 'Library to enable easier testing of capabilities.'
    }
  ]
}
```

</details>

### Check the HTTP communication

Set the environment variable `DEBUG` to `superface:http*` to see API calls from OneSDK to GitHub API:

```shell
DEBUG="superface:http*" node index.js
```

:::caution
This can print out potentially sensitive information.
:::

Set the DEBUG value to `*` to see everything what is going in under the hood. Check [OneSDK's documentation and source code](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js) for more details.

### Understand runtime integration

During the App runtime OneSDK downloaded a Comlink map from Superface servers. The Comlink map instructs the OneSDK how to make the direct call to GitHub API to perform the capability.

You can always check the Comlink map at profile's detail page for the given provider by clicking the "raw" link. For example here's the [latest map for `vcs/user-repos` and `github`](https://superface.ai/raw/vcs/user-repos.github@1.0.suma).

</div>

## Next step

With your first capability set up, you can now [start monitoring the integrations](./integrations-monitoring.mdx) in Superface dashboard.
