docs/integrations-monitoring.mdx, before:

# Integrations monitoring

Superface comes with out-of-the-box monitoring of integrations used by your App. With Superface project you will get insights on your App's API dependencies and their health status. In case of use-case failure, you will also receive an email notification with details about the failing API calls.

## Set up integrations monitoring

This guide assumes you have created a Node.js app with first integration. If you missed that, see the previous step: [Getting&nbsp;started](./getting-started.mdx)

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Create new project

Create a new project in [Superface dashboard](/dashboard).

<!-- TODO: screenshot -->

### Get your SDK token

Copy the project's SDK token.

### Use the SDK token with your Application

In command line, set the token as `SUPERFACE_SDK_TOKEN` environment variable:

```shell
export SUPERFACE_SDK_TOKEN="<your token>"
```

Run your application again:

```shell
node index.js
```

### Check your dashboard

Observe how are the capabilities used by your application.

<!-- TODO: screenshot -->

### Monitor your API dependencies

In the case of API failure Superface will email you with the notification.

<!-- TODO: screenshot -->

</div>

<!-- TODO: Publish other topics first

## Next steps

This covers basic usage of the Superface and OneSDK. Start using Superface capabilities with your existing apps or check out the following topics.

### Install other capabilities

Lorem ipsum.

### Configure additional providers

Lorem ipsum.

### Setup failover

Lorem ipsum.

### Add custom capabilities

If you need a capability which is not available in the catalog, see [How to create a capability](guides/how-to-create.md) guide to make a custom capability from scratch.

-->

Commit message:

Prerequisites, screenshots
- Getting started: Revert to node.js prereq, remove link to catalog
- Add account prereq to integrations monitoring
- Add screenshots for dashboard and email notice

docs/integrations-monitoring.mdx, after:

# Integrations monitoring

Superface comes with out-of-the-box monitoring of integrations used by your App. With Superface project you will get insights on your App's API dependencies and their health status. In case of use-case failure, you will also receive an email notification with details about the failing API calls.

## Set up integrations monitoring

### Prerequisites

- Node.js app with OneSDK and a capability set up; see [Getting&nbsp;started](./getting-started.mdx) to create one
- Registered account on [superface.ai](https://superface.ai/) to access catalog and dashboard

<div class="count-steps-h3">

### Create new project

Create a new project in [Superface dashboard](/dashboard).

<!-- TODO: screenshot -->

### Get your SDK token

Copy the project's SDK token.

### Use the SDK token with your Application

In command line, set the token as `SUPERFACE_SDK_TOKEN` environment variable:

```shell
export SUPERFACE_SDK_TOKEN="<your token>"
```

Run your application again:

```shell
node index.js
```

### Check your dashboard

Observe how are the capabilities used by your application.

![Project detail from the dashboard with call statistics and health status of the VCS User Repositories use-case.](../assets/integrations-monitoring-dashboard.png)

### Monitor your API dependencies

In the case of API failure Superface will email you with the notification.

![Email stating that github has problems, try using a different provider.](../assets/integrations-monitoring-email.png)

</div>

<!-- TODO: Publish other topics first

## Next steps

This covers basic usage of the Superface and OneSDK. Start using Superface capabilities with your existing apps or check out the following topics.

### Install other capabilities

Lorem ipsum.

### Configure additional providers

Lorem ipsum.

### Setup failover

Lorem ipsum.

### Add custom capabilities

If you need a capability which is not available in the catalog, see [How to create a capability](guides/how-to-create.md) guide to make a custom capability from scratch.

-->
