docs/reference/superjson.mdx, before:

---
slug: /reference/superjson
displayed_sidebar: referenceSidebar
---

# super.json

`super.json` is the main Superface configuration file, located by default in the `superface` folder under your project root. It specifies which profiles, maps, and providers are used, and their configuration (e.g. API credentials).

It is not required (in most cases) in order to use Superface, but you may still find it useful as your project grows in size and complexity, as it provides a central location for configuring details concerning your API integrations.

The two situations in which `super.json` is required are:
  - Using locally stored profiles, maps and providers; e.g. (yet) unpublished integrations, or integrations with APIs internal to your organization. 
  - Configuring [provider failover](../guides/using-multiple-providers.mdx#failover).

## Anatomy

At the top level, the `super.json` file consists of two sections: [profiles](#profiles) and [providers](#providers). The profiles section contains a list of installed profiles, their versions or file locations, and default values. The providers section contains a list of installed providers and their credentials.

### Example

```json title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    // Profiles
    "myprofile1": "1.0.0", // Semver shorthand
    "myprofile2": "file:path/to/my/profile.supr", // File URI shorthand
    "myprofile3": {
      // ProfileSettings
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "priority": ["provider-one", "provider-two"],
      "defaults": {
        "MyUseCase": {
          // UsecaseDefaults
          "input": {
            "someInputProperty": 42
          },
          "providerFailover": true
        }
      },
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          // ProfileProviderSettings
          "file": "path/to/provider.json",
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              // ProfileProviderDefaults
              "input": {
                "someInputProperty": 43
              },
              "retryPolicy": {
                // RetryPolicy
                "kind": "circuit-breaker",
                "maxContiguousRetries": 3,
                "requestTimeout": 60000,
                "backoff": {
                  "kind": "exponential",
                  "start": 1000,
                  "factor": 3
                }
              }
            }
          }
        },
        "provider-two": "file:path/to/provider.json" // File URI shorthand
      }
    }
  },
  "providers": {
    // Providers
    "provider-one": "file:path/to/provider.json", // File URI shorthand
    "provider-two": {
      // ProviderSettings
      "file": "path/to/provider.json",
      "security": [
        // SecurityValues
        {
          "id": "my-authentication",
          "apikey": "my-api-key"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Profiles

The profiles section consists of a record of all installed profiles. The key is the name of the profile and value is either a shorthand or a [ProfileSettings](#profilesettings) object. There are two options for the shorthand:

- [a semantic version string](https://semver.org)
- a file URI string, which is an absolute or relative path prepended by `file:`

```json title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile1": "1.0.0",
    "myprofile2": "file:path/to/profile.supr",
    "myprofile3": {
      // ProfileSettings
    }
  }
}
```

### ProfileSettings

The ProfileSettings object contains either `file` or `version` property, analogous to the shortcut strings above (the `file:` prefix is optional in this case) and following optional properties:

- `priority`: an array of strings containing provider names in desired order for failover. If omitted, it is constructed from the order of providers in this file that have `providerFailover` set to `true`
- `providers`: an array of [ProfileProviderSettings](#profileprovidersettings) objects or URI strings, used for configuring providers for the profile. Not to be confused with top-level Providers record
- `defaults`: a record of defaults for the use-case, key is use-case name, value is [UsecaseDefaults](#usecasedefaults) object

```json {3-17} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "priority": ["provider-one", "provider-two"],
      "defaults": {
        "MyUseCase": {
          // UsecaseDefaults
        }
      },
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          // ProfileProviderSettings
        },
        "provider-two": "file:path/to/provider.json"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### UsecaseDefaults

UsecaseDefaults specifies default values for a use-case for all providers. The key is use-case's name and the value is an object with following optional properties:

- `input`: an object providing default values according to use-case's input
- `providerFailover`: a boolean specific whether provider failover should be allowed for the use-case. Defaults to `false`

```json {5-10} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "defaults": {
        "MyUseCase": {
          "input": {
            "someInputProperty": 42
          },
          "providerFailover": true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### ProfileProviderSettings

ProfileProviderSettings object defines profile-specific configuration of providers. The provider definition can be either a file path (in `file` property), or a specific variant and revision (with `mapVariant` and `mapRevision`). It can also contain the optional property `defaults`:

- `defaults`: a record of defaults per use-case, key is use-case name and value is a [ProfileProviderDefaults](#profileproviderdefaults) object

```json {5-11} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "file": "path/to/provider.json",
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              // ProfileProviderDefaults
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```json {5-12} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-two": {
          "mapVariant": "my-variant",
          "mapRevision": "3",
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              // ProfileProviderDefaults
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### ProfileProviderDefaults

ProfileProviderDefaults is an object with following optional properties:

- `input`: an object providing default values according to the use-case's input
- `retryPolicy`: a [RetryPolicy](#retrypolicy) object

```json {7-14} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              "input": {
                "someInputProperty": 42
              },
              "retryPolicy": {
                // RetryPolicy
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### RetryPolicy

RetryPolicy is used for setting up retry policy for a provider and use-case. There are currently two types of retry policy, `none` or `circuit-breaker`. When using `none`, no retry is attempted. When using `circuit-breaker`, several attempts are made with back-off. Following properties are used to configure the policy (all optional except kind). When using default values, `none` or `circuit-breaker` string can be used as shorthand instead of the object.

- `kind`: `none` or `circuit-breaker`
- `maxContiguousRetries`: maximum number of retry attempts, positive integer, default 5
- `requestTimeout`: timeout after which a request fails, positive integer, milliseconds, default 30000
- `backoff`: either string `exponential` or an object with following properties:
  - `kind`: string `exponential`
  - `start`: the initial delay time, optional, positive integer, milliseconds, default 2000
  - `factor`: the factor by which is the delay time multiplied, optional, positive integer, default 2

```json {8-17} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              "retryPolicy": {
                "kind": "circuit-breaker",
                "maxContiguousRetries": 3,
                "requestTimeout": 60000,
                "backoff": {
                  "kind": "exponential",
                  "start": 1000,
                  "factor": 3
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```json {8} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              "retryPolicy": "circuit-breaker"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Providers

The providers section consists of a record of all used providers. The key is the name of the provider and the value is either a file URI (with `file:` prefix) or a [ProviderSettings](#providersettings) object.

```json title="superface/super.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "provider-one": "file:path/to/provider.json",
    "provider-two": {
      // ProviderSettings
    }
  }
}
```

### ProviderSettings

The ProviderSettings object has following optional properties:

- `file`: a file URI string
- `security`: an array of [SecurityValues](#securityvalues) objects

```json {3-10} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "myprovider": {
      "file": "path/to/provider.json",
      "security": [
        {
          // SecurityValues
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### SecurityValues

SecurityValues is a union of several types of security configuration objects: API Key, Basic Auth or Bearer Token. Values starting with `$` will be replaced with environment variables with the name following `$`. All of them have a property in common:

- `id`: identifier of the security scheme, referenced in map

#### API Key

API key uses provided API key in a header, body, path or query string (specified in provider.json)

- `apikey`: string containing API key

#### Basic Auth

Basic Auth uses provided username and password and sends them base64 encoded in Authorization header as per [RFC 7617](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7617)

- `username`: string containing username
- `password`: string containing password

#### Bearer Token

Bearer Token uses provided token and sends it in Authorization header as per [RFC 6750](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6750)

- `token`: string containing bearer token

<!-- TODO
#### Digest
Digest uses provided token and sends it in Authorization header as per [RFC 2617](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2617).

- `digest`: string containing digest -->

```json {4-22} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "file": "path/to/provider.json",
    "security": [
      {
        "id": "first",
        "apikey": "my-api-key"
      },
      {
        "id": "second",
        "username": "$MY_NAME", // Value of environment variable MY_NAME will be used here
        "password": "$MY_PASSWORD" // Value of environment variable MY_PASSWORD will be used here
      },
      {
        "id": "third",
        "token": "my-bearer-token"
      },
      {
        "id": "fourth",
        "digest": "my-digest"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

add "advanced usage" stub, move super.json explanation

docs/reference/superjson.mdx, after:

---
slug: /reference/superjson
displayed_sidebar: referenceSidebar
---

# super.json

`super.json` is the main Superface configuration file, located by default in the `superface` folder under your project root, but it can also be passed as the `superJson` property during [SDK initialization](one-sdk.mdx#configuration). It specifies which profiles, maps, and providers are used, and their configuration (e.g. API credentials).

It is not required (in most cases) in order to use Superface, but you may still find it useful as your project grows in size and complexity, or you wish to use more advanced features. See [Advanced Usage](../advanced-usage.mdx) for more details.

## Anatomy

At the top level, the `super.json` file consists of two sections: [profiles](#profiles) and [providers](#providers). The profiles section contains a list of installed profiles, their versions or file locations, and default values. The providers section contains a list of installed providers and their credentials.

### Example

```json title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    // Profiles
    "myprofile1": "1.0.0", // Semver shorthand
    "myprofile2": "file:path/to/my/profile.supr", // File URI shorthand
    "myprofile3": {
      // ProfileSettings
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "priority": ["provider-one", "provider-two"],
      "defaults": {
        "MyUseCase": {
          // UsecaseDefaults
          "input": {
            "someInputProperty": 42
          },
          "providerFailover": true
        }
      },
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          // ProfileProviderSettings
          "file": "path/to/provider.json",
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              // ProfileProviderDefaults
              "input": {
                "someInputProperty": 43
              },
              "retryPolicy": {
                // RetryPolicy
                "kind": "circuit-breaker",
                "maxContiguousRetries": 3,
                "requestTimeout": 60000,
                "backoff": {
                  "kind": "exponential",
                  "start": 1000,
                  "factor": 3
                }
              }
            }
          }
        },
        "provider-two": "file:path/to/provider.json" // File URI shorthand
      }
    }
  },
  "providers": {
    // Providers
    "provider-one": "file:path/to/provider.json", // File URI shorthand
    "provider-two": {
      // ProviderSettings
      "file": "path/to/provider.json",
      "security": [
        // SecurityValues
        {
          "id": "my-authentication",
          "apikey": "my-api-key"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Profiles

The profiles section consists of a record of all installed profiles. The key is the name of the profile and value is either a shorthand or a [ProfileSettings](#profilesettings) object. There are two options for the shorthand:

- [a semantic version string](https://semver.org)
- a file URI string, which is an absolute or relative path prepended by `file:`

```json title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile1": "1.0.0",
    "myprofile2": "file:path/to/profile.supr",
    "myprofile3": {
      // ProfileSettings
    }
  }
}
```

### ProfileSettings

The ProfileSettings object contains either `file` or `version` property, analogous to the shortcut strings above (the `file:` prefix is optional in this case) and following optional properties:

- `priority`: an array of strings containing provider names in desired order for failover. If omitted, it is constructed from the order of providers in this file that have `providerFailover` set to `true`
- `providers`: an array of [ProfileProviderSettings](#profileprovidersettings) objects or URI strings, used for configuring providers for the profile. Not to be confused with top-level Providers record
- `defaults`: a record of defaults for the use-case, key is use-case name, value is [UsecaseDefaults](#usecasedefaults) object

```json {3-17} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "priority": ["provider-one", "provider-two"],
      "defaults": {
        "MyUseCase": {
          // UsecaseDefaults
        }
      },
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          // ProfileProviderSettings
        },
        "provider-two": "file:path/to/provider.json"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### UsecaseDefaults

UsecaseDefaults specifies default values for a use-case for all providers. The key is use-case's name and the value is an object with following optional properties:

- `input`: an object providing default values according to use-case's input
- `providerFailover`: a boolean specific whether provider failover should be allowed for the use-case. Defaults to `false`

```json {5-10} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "defaults": {
        "MyUseCase": {
          "input": {
            "someInputProperty": 42
          },
          "providerFailover": true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### ProfileProviderSettings

ProfileProviderSettings object defines profile-specific configuration of providers. The provider definition can be either a file path (in `file` property), or a specific variant and revision (with `mapVariant` and `mapRevision`). It can also contain the optional property `defaults`:

- `defaults`: a record of defaults per use-case, key is use-case name and value is a [ProfileProviderDefaults](#profileproviderdefaults) object

```json {5-11} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "file": "path/to/provider.json",
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              // ProfileProviderDefaults
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```json {5-12} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-two": {
          "mapVariant": "my-variant",
          "mapRevision": "3",
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              // ProfileProviderDefaults
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### ProfileProviderDefaults

ProfileProviderDefaults is an object with following optional properties:

- `input`: an object providing default values according to the use-case's input
- `retryPolicy`: a [RetryPolicy](#retrypolicy) object

```json {7-14} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              "input": {
                "someInputProperty": 42
              },
              "retryPolicy": {
                // RetryPolicy
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### RetryPolicy

RetryPolicy is used for setting up retry policy for a provider and use-case. There are currently two types of retry policy, `none` or `circuit-breaker`. When using `none`, no retry is attempted. When using `circuit-breaker`, several attempts are made with back-off. Following properties are used to configure the policy (all optional except kind). When using default values, `none` or `circuit-breaker` string can be used as shorthand instead of the object.

- `kind`: `none` or `circuit-breaker`
- `maxContiguousRetries`: maximum number of retry attempts, positive integer, default 5
- `requestTimeout`: timeout after which a request fails, positive integer, milliseconds, default 30000
- `backoff`: either string `exponential` or an object with following properties:
  - `kind`: string `exponential`
  - `start`: the initial delay time, optional, positive integer, milliseconds, default 2000
  - `factor`: the factor by which is the delay time multiplied, optional, positive integer, default 2

```json {8-17} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              "retryPolicy": {
                "kind": "circuit-breaker",
                "maxContiguousRetries": 3,
                "requestTimeout": 60000,
                "backoff": {
                  "kind": "exponential",
                  "start": 1000,
                  "factor": 3
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```json {8} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "myprofile": {
      "providers": {
        "provider-one": {
          "defaults": {
            "MyUseCase": {
              "retryPolicy": "circuit-breaker"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Providers

The providers section consists of a record of all used providers. The key is the name of the provider and the value is either a file URI (with `file:` prefix) or a [ProviderSettings](#providersettings) object.

```json title="superface/super.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "provider-one": "file:path/to/provider.json",
    "provider-two": {
      // ProviderSettings
    }
  }
}
```

### ProviderSettings

The ProviderSettings object has following optional properties:

- `file`: a file URI string
- `security`: an array of [SecurityValues](#securityvalues) objects

```json {3-10} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "myprovider": {
      "file": "path/to/provider.json",
      "security": [
        {
          // SecurityValues
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### SecurityValues

SecurityValues is a union of several types of security configuration objects: API Key, Basic Auth or Bearer Token. Values starting with `$` will be replaced with environment variables with the name following `$`. All of them have a property in common:

- `id`: identifier of the security scheme, referenced in map

#### API Key

API key uses provided API key in a header, body, path or query string (specified in provider.json)

- `apikey`: string containing API key

#### Basic Auth

Basic Auth uses provided username and password and sends them base64 encoded in Authorization header as per [RFC 7617](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7617)

- `username`: string containing username
- `password`: string containing password

#### Bearer Token

Bearer Token uses provided token and sends it in Authorization header as per [RFC 6750](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6750)

- `token`: string containing bearer token

<!-- TODO
#### Digest
Digest uses provided token and sends it in Authorization header as per [RFC 2617](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2617).

- `digest`: string containing digest -->

```json {4-22} title="superface/super.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "file": "path/to/provider.json",
    "security": [
      {
        "id": "first",
        "apikey": "my-api-key"
      },
      {
        "id": "second",
        "username": "$MY_NAME", // Value of environment variable MY_NAME will be used here
        "password": "$MY_PASSWORD" // Value of environment variable MY_PASSWORD will be used here
      },
      {
        "id": "third",
        "token": "my-bearer-token"
      },
      {
        "id": "fourth",
        "digest": "my-digest"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
