docs/comlink/reference/map.mdx, before:

---
slug: /comlink/reference/map
---

# Comlink Map Reference

Comlink Map is a format for describing how an API provider's services map to the use-cases in a [Comlink Profile](./profile.mdx).

## Map Details

- `profile` - the profile identifier to which the map corresponds
  - can be written without version: `starwars/character-information`
  - can be writtent with version omitting the patch number: `starwars/character-information@1.1`
- `provider` - corresponds to the provider identifier found in the Provider Definition
- `variant` (optional) - allows for multiple maps for the same profile and provider

```hcl title="Map details example"
profile = "conversation/send-message"
provider = "some-telco-api"

map SendMessage {
  ...
}

map RetrieveMessageStatus {
  ...
}
```

## Use-Case Maps

Map to a use-case using the `map <use-case-name>` statement. Use-cases may define and expect inputs from the user. These inputs are [defined in the profile](./profile.mdx#inputs). A Use-Case Map can have multiple [HTTP Calls](#http-call) defined within it.

## HTTP Call

The HTTP Call uses `http` and defines the information needed to make a call and map the inputs, result, and error to the profile use-cases.

* HTTP Method - Comlink supports all widely-support [HTTP methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods)
* URI Template - URI template as defined by [RFC6570](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6570)
* HTTP Transaction - a scope that defines the [HTTP Security](#http-security), [HTTP Request](#http-request), and [HTTP Responses](#http-response) for a given HTTP Call.

The example below shows an HTTP Call that uses the HTTP method `POST` and the URI template `/api/messages`.

```hcl title="HTTP transaction example"
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {

  }
}
```

## HTTP Security

You can define the security requirements for an HTTP transaction that align with the security schemes in a provider definition. If no security requirement is provided, the default is `none`. The security requirement is enclosed within double quotes `"`.

This example shows a `POST` HTTP call to [the provider's default service](./provider.mdx#default-service) on path `/api/messages`.

```hcl title="Default security requirement"
http GET "/public-endpoint" {
  security "api_key_scheme_id"
  
  response {
    # ...
  }
}
```

## HTTP Request

The HTTP Request uses `request` and is optional. It defines the request for the HTTP Transaction. It can include URL query parameters, HTTP headers, and a body. It can also include the content type and specify different services included in the provider definition.

This shows an example of an HTTP request.

```hcl title="HTTP Request example with content type"
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" {
      query {
        from = input.from
      }

      body {
        to = input.to
        text = input.text
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The definition makes a call to `/api/messages?from=...` with body of content type `application/json` including object with two parameters `to` and `text`.

### Query Parameters

A `query` maps query parameters to their values. Variables are accessible here, so `input` may be used to map profile inputs to query parameters.

This example shows how to map an HTTP Request with a `myName` query parameter to the value `"John"`.


```hcl title="Query parameter"
http GET "/greeting" {
  request {
    query {
      myName = "John"
    }
  }
}
```

### HTTP Headers

The `headers` property maps HTTP headers to their values. Variables are accessible here, so `input` may be used to map profile inputs to HTTP headers. If an HTTP header name contains a hyphen, enclose the name in double quotes.

```hcl title="HTTP Headers"
http POST "/users" {
  request "application/json" {
    headers {
      "my-header" = 42
    }
  }
}
```

### HTTP Request Body

The `body` property maps body properties to their values. 

This example shows a request body mapped to an object.

```hcl title="HTTP Request Body object"
http POST "/users" {
  request "application/json" {
    body = {
      key = 1
    }
  }
}
```

Arrays may also be used.

```hcl title="HTTP Request Body array"
http POST "/users" {
  request "application/json" {
    body = [1, 2, 3]
  }
}
```

## HTTP Response

An HTTP Response describes the responses for a transaction that map the response to the profile's result or error. An HTTP Transaction can have multiple responses based on HTTP status codes and content types. This allows for handling many different types of responses and mapping them into the use-case's `result` and `error` definitions.

A response has a:

- status code
- content type
- content language (optional)
- response block

### Response variables

The following variables are available in a response block. These can be used to map response data to use-case results or errors. They can also be used to conditionally map to results or errors.

- `statusCode` (number): HTTP response status code
- `headers` (object): HTTP response headers
- `body` (object): HTTP response body

This example shows where response variables are available.

```hcl title="Accessing variables in a response block" {11}
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 201 "application/json" {
      // code in this block can reference `statusCode`, `headers` and `body`
    }
  }
}
```

### Map a Use-Case Result

You can map to a use-case [result](./profile.mdx#result) using a `map result` statement. You must resolve the same `result` as defined in the use-case. 

```hcl title="Mapping to a use-case result" {11-14}
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 201 "application/json" {
      map result {
        messageId = body.message_sid
        remainingMessages = headers["X-CREDIT-LEFT"] / 0.3
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The above definition maps the two expected result fields. One from the response's body and the other is from the headers, which is then transformed with a Comlink expression.

### Map to a Use-Case Error

You can also map a response to a use-case [error](./profile.mdx#error) using the `map error` statement. Like when mapping to a `result`, you must resolve the same `error` as defined in the use-case.

```hcl title="<profile-name>.<provider-name>.suma" {12-17}
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 201 "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 429 {
      map error {
        title = "Sending messages too frequently"
        details = (`You can send more message after ${headers['Retry-After']} seconds`)
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This maps to the two expected error fields when the server responds with status `429 (Too Many Requests)`. One is hardcoded as it describes the error scenario, the other constructs a helpful message with a value from response headers using a simple Comlink expression.

:::note

`map error` Comlink statement and can happen from anywhere inside the use-case mapping, not only from an inside of the response handler.

:::

### Multiple Response Mappings

You may map multiple responses in a single HTTP Transaction. This is how to match different status codes for a single request.

The example belows shows a single `POST` with responses for multiple success and error HTTP Responses.

```hcl title="Multiple Response Mappings"
profile = "communication/send-email@1.1"
provider = "postmark"

map SendEmail {
  http POST "/email" {
    security "server_token"
    
    request "application/json" {
      body {
        From = input.from
        To = input.to
        Subject= input.subject
        TextBody = input.text
        HtmlBody = input.html
      }
    }
    
    response 200 "application/json" {
      map result {
        messageId = body.MessageID
      }
    }

    response 422 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Invalid inputs"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }

    response 401 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Unauthorized"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }

    response 403 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Forbidden"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }

    response 500 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Internal server Error"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Conditional Response Mappings

Sometimes more conditions are needed to map HTTP responses to the profile results and errors. For this, you can conditionally handle mappings.

This example shows how to map a result if `body.ok` is truthy or map an error if `body.ok` is falsey.

```hcl title="Conditionally handling responses"
http POST "/users" {
  response 201 "application/json" {
    map result if(body.ok) {
      ...
    }

    map error if(!body.ok) {
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

## Specification

There are more features of the Comlink Map. Please refer to the [specifications](../specifications.mdx) for more information.

## Examples

- [Map with reusable operations, iterations & expressions](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/main/capabilities/delivery-tracking/shipment-info/maps/dhl.suma)
- [Map with multiple error response mappings](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/main/capabilities/communication/send-email/maps/postmark.suma)

Commit message:

feat: Add Path Parameters to map ref

docs/comlink/reference/map.mdx, after:

---
slug: /comlink/reference/map
---

# Comlink Map Reference

Comlink Map is a format for describing how an API provider's services map to the use-cases in a [Comlink Profile](./profile.mdx).

## Map Details

- `profile` - the profile identifier to which the map corresponds
  - can be written without version: `starwars/character-information`
  - can be writtent with version omitting the patch number: `starwars/character-information@1.1`
- `provider` - corresponds to the provider identifier found in the Provider Definition
- `variant` (optional) - allows for multiple maps for the same profile and provider

```hcl title="Map details example"
profile = "conversation/send-message"
provider = "some-telco-api"

map SendMessage {
  ...
}

map RetrieveMessageStatus {
  ...
}
```

## Use-Case Maps

Map to a use-case using the `map <use-case-name>` statement. Use-cases may define and expect inputs from the user. These inputs are [defined in the profile](./profile.mdx#inputs). A Use-Case Map can have multiple [HTTP Calls](#http-call) defined within it.

## HTTP Call

The HTTP Call uses `http` and defines the information needed to make a call and map the inputs, result, and error to the profile use-cases.

* HTTP Method - Comlink supports all widely-support [HTTP methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods)
* URI Template - URI template as defined by [RFC6570](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6570)
* HTTP Transaction - a scope that defines the [HTTP Security](#http-security), [HTTP Request](#http-request), and [HTTP Responses](#http-response) for a given HTTP Call.

The example below shows an HTTP Call that uses the HTTP method `POST` and the URI template `/api/messages`.

```hcl title="HTTP transaction example"
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {

  }
}
```

## HTTP Security

You can define the security requirements for an HTTP transaction that align with the security schemes in a provider definition. If no security requirement is provided, the default is `none`. The security requirement is enclosed within double quotes `"`.

This example shows a `POST` HTTP call to [the provider's default service](./provider.mdx#default-service) on path `/api/messages`.

```hcl title="Default security requirement"
http GET "/public-endpoint" {
  security "api_key_scheme_id"
  
  response {
    # ...
  }
}
```

## HTTP Request

The HTTP Request uses `request` and is optional. It defines the request for the HTTP Transaction. It can include URL query parameters, HTTP headers, and a body. It can also include the content type and specify different services included in the provider definition.

This shows an example of an HTTP request.

```hcl title="HTTP Request example with content type"
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" {
      query {
        from = input.from
      }

      body {
        to = input.to
        text = input.text
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The definition makes a call to `/api/messages?from=...` with body of content type `application/json` including object with two parameters `to` and `text`.

### Path Parameters
You can reference variables in URI template with `{variable}` syntax. This is a simple variable substitution, non-string values are converted to their JSON equivalents.

```hcl title="Path parameter"
http GET "/messges/{input.id}" {
  response {
    # ...
  }
}
```


### Query Parameters

A `query` maps query parameters to their values. Variables are accessible here, so `input` may be used to map profile inputs to query parameters.

This example shows how to map an HTTP Request with a `myName` query parameter to the value `"John"`.


```hcl title="Query parameter"
http GET "/greeting" {
  request {
    query {
      myName = "John"
    }
  }
}
```

### HTTP Headers

The `headers` property maps HTTP headers to their values. Variables are accessible here, so `input` may be used to map profile inputs to HTTP headers. If an HTTP header name contains a hyphen, enclose the name in double quotes.

```hcl title="HTTP Headers"
http POST "/users" {
  request "application/json" {
    headers {
      "my-header" = 42
    }
  }
}
```

### HTTP Request Body

The `body` property maps body properties to their values. 

This example shows a request body mapped to an object.

```hcl title="HTTP Request Body object"
http POST "/users" {
  request "application/json" {
    body = {
      key = 1
    }
  }
}
```

Arrays may also be used.

```hcl title="HTTP Request Body array"
http POST "/users" {
  request "application/json" {
    body = [1, 2, 3]
  }
}
```

## HTTP Response

An HTTP Response describes the responses for a transaction that map the response to the profile's result or error. An HTTP Transaction can have multiple responses based on HTTP status codes and content types. This allows for handling many different types of responses and mapping them into the use-case's `result` and `error` definitions.

A response has a:

- status code
- content type
- content language (optional)
- response block

### Response variables

The following variables are available in a response block. These can be used to map response data to use-case results or errors. They can also be used to conditionally map to results or errors.

- `statusCode` (number): HTTP response status code
- `headers` (object): HTTP response headers
- `body` (object): HTTP response body

This example shows where response variables are available.

```hcl title="Accessing variables in a response block" {11}
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 201 "application/json" {
      // code in this block can reference `statusCode`, `headers` and `body`
    }
  }
}
```

### Map a Use-Case Result

You can map to a use-case [result](./profile.mdx#result) using a `map result` statement. You must resolve the same `result` as defined in the use-case. 

```hcl title="Mapping to a use-case result" {11-14}
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 201 "application/json" {
      map result {
        messageId = body.message_sid
        remainingMessages = headers["X-CREDIT-LEFT"] / 0.3
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The above definition maps the two expected result fields. One from the response's body and the other is from the headers, which is then transformed with a Comlink expression.

### Map to a Use-Case Error

You can also map a response to a use-case [error](./profile.mdx#error) using the `map error` statement. Like when mapping to a `result`, you must resolve the same `error` as defined in the use-case.

```hcl title="<profile-name>.<provider-name>.suma" {12-17}
profile = "<profile-name>@<version>"
provider = "<provider-name>"

map UseCaseName {
  http POST "/api/messages" {
    security "scheme-id"

    request "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 201 "application/json" { /* ... */ }

    response 429 {
      map error {
        title = "Sending messages too frequently"
        details = (`You can send more message after ${headers['Retry-After']} seconds`)
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This maps to the two expected error fields when the server responds with status `429 (Too Many Requests)`. One is hardcoded as it describes the error scenario, the other constructs a helpful message with a value from response headers using a simple Comlink expression.

:::note

`map error` Comlink statement and can happen from anywhere inside the use-case mapping, not only from an inside of the response handler.

:::

### Multiple Response Mappings

You may map multiple responses in a single HTTP Transaction. This is how to match different status codes for a single request.

The example belows shows a single `POST` with responses for multiple success and error HTTP Responses.

```hcl title="Multiple Response Mappings"
profile = "communication/send-email@1.1"
provider = "postmark"

map SendEmail {
  http POST "/email" {
    security "server_token"
    
    request "application/json" {
      body {
        From = input.from
        To = input.to
        Subject= input.subject
        TextBody = input.text
        HtmlBody = input.html
      }
    }
    
    response 200 "application/json" {
      map result {
        messageId = body.MessageID
      }
    }

    response 422 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Invalid inputs"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }

    response 401 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Unauthorized"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }

    response 403 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Forbidden"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }

    response 500 "application/json" {
      map error {
        title = "Internal server Error"
        detail = body.Message
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Conditional Response Mappings

Sometimes more conditions are needed to map HTTP responses to the profile results and errors. For this, you can conditionally handle mappings.

This example shows how to map a result if `body.ok` is truthy or map an error if `body.ok` is falsey.

```hcl title="Conditionally handling responses"
http POST "/users" {
  response 201 "application/json" {
    map result if(body.ok) {
      ...
    }

    map error if(!body.ok) {
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

## Specification

There are more features of the Comlink Map. Please refer to the [specifications](../specifications.mdx) for more information.

## Examples

- [Map with reusable operations, iterations & expressions](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/main/capabilities/delivery-tracking/shipment-info/maps/dhl.suma)
- [Map with multiple error response mappings](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/main/capabilities/communication/send-email/maps/postmark.suma)
